
This is the story of how Benjamin Graham, the father of value investing and the mentor and teacher of the most successful investor ever, Warren Buffett, made his first $1 million. You will understand the events, characteristics and investment strategies that took a broke immigrant boy without a father from 0 figures to 7 figures. Not to mention, Graham accomplished this during the worst bear market in history. Even though most of this story takes place almost a century ago, surprisingly many of Graham's actions and ideas can be applied in the ambitious person's own journey towards financial freedom today. Let's dive in. This is The Swedish Investor, bringing you the most in-depth descriptions of stock market legends. Graham the Grossbaum Benjamin Graham or Benjamin Grossbaum as he was then named was born in May 1894 in London.

Many things happened early in little Ben's life that didn't precisely spell fortune and millions of dollars in the stock market. Firstly, his Jewish family moved to New York when he was little. A family of entrepreneurs, the Grossbaums thought the other side of the pond would prove more fertile ground for business development. However, their fortune would take a terrible turn when Ben's father, Isaac Grossbaum, died in 1903. Ben was just 9 years old. After the incident, he and his older brothers, Victor and Leon, took whatever jobs they could find to make ends meet for the family. The US was a land of optimism at the time though. Janet Lowe describes it well in her book, Benjamin Graham on Value Investing. High-tech stuff like the typewriter, the sewing machine, the self-binding harvester, and especially the automobile surely would make life glorious for everyone.

Graham's first taste of mr.  market when ben was 13 years old in 1907, he had his first experience in the stock market, which could have been better.  his widowed mother Dora had purchased a stake in US Steel, but the timing couldn't have been worse.  it was 1907 and soon enough a panic broke out on Wall Street. the family's shares were down by 49%. The market quickly recovered, but that didn't help poor Dora, who, in a family with only a single income, had little staying power. Mr. Market won, Ben zero. Mr. Market had won the battle, but spoiler alert, Ben was going to win the war. Graham the college graduate On the 3rd of June 1914, when Ben was 20 years old, he graduated from Columbia University in New York.

He faced two major challenges before accomplishing this feat. Firstly, he wasn't immediately accepted to the school. After finishing high school, Ben took a national test and scored poorly. Ben had always been a bright student and everyone was surprised by this failure. Meanwhile, a relative of Ben, with the exact same name, got one of the highest grades ever scored on the test. Later it would be revealed that their tests had been mixed up. Because of this incident Graham arrived later than his classmates that first semester, but that wasn't going to stop him What almost did stop him, the second challenge for Ben at Columbia, was that at the time all graduates had to pass a swimming test Ben had brains, but no experience in the pool. A few weeks of training sealed the deal though. What about Ben's first million?

It hadn't even started to accumulate yet. So compared to for example Ben's padawan Warren Buffett, Ben had quite the rough start. His brothers and a part-time job at US Express helped him with the tuition fees.  graham and anti-semitism when world war i broke out in Europe in 1914, the US became highly anti-German.  sauerkraut was renamed Liberty Cabbage, hamburgers oddly enough they do not come from the US which I thought, but from the German city Hamburg became Liberty Steaks and pretzels were banned from lunch counters.

the country wasn't free from anti-semitism either and the grossbaums who had a jiddish or german surname felt the strain therefore benjamin grossbaum became benjamin graham during these tumultuous times Graham and Wall Street Graham was offered jobs as a teacher at Columbia by three different departments mathematics, philosophy and English. What about economics, you may ask, with the benefit of hindsight knowledge? Well, Graham had dropped out of the only course he had taken on the subject. I think this makes the events that were to unfold quite hilarious. Puzzled with the difficult decision to choose English, mathematics or philosophy? Which one am I most interested in? Graham went to the Dean of Columbia, Frederick Keppel, for some counselling.

As Graham himself puts it in his memoirs He had a strong prediction for sending bright college graduates into business instead of shutting them up in the ivory tower of academic life. Said and done, Keppel strayed Graham away from his own institution and landed him a job at the brokerage firm Neuberger, Henderson Loeb on Wall Street. Graham and Neuberger During this time, Wall Street wasn't as glamorous as it is today, and Graham's entry position earned him a whooping 12 bucks per week. At this pace, Graham would reach his first million by age 1622 and since we wouldn't have time for such a long story, we're lucky that he soon found some more lucrative ways of making a buck.

Graham was making massive progress at work, but unfortunately during these first years, he was up against an even more massive headwind. He worked hard as a runner, delivering checks and securities, and within a month, he advanced to assisting in a bond department, describing bonds that Neuberger thought were interesting.  this greater responsibility would likely have been accompanied by a more extensive paycheck, hadn't someone shot a certain archduke in Europe.  the breakout of World War I was a fact, and so was a panic on the new york stock exchange, which shut down for 5 months. Graham's salary was cut to $10 per week. Now it was 1,942 years until that first million. Graham showed a true talent for dissecting the numbers of accounting sorcerers and when one of his bond reports accidentally made its way to a competing firm, Bach Co., they immediately wanted to hire him.

They offered 18 bucks a week, a massive 80 hike in salary. His boss made a counteroffer where Graham was made in charge of the new security analysis department. During this time, he also published several articles in the magazine of Wall Street, primarily about bonds. The magazine liked his pieces so much that they offered him a well-paid position as the editor. Once again, his boss Neuberger made a counteroffer and so, in 1916, Graham's salary was at $50 per week. In addition, he was promised a future position as a partner in the firm. I think now was the first time in Graham's life where he could actually accumulate some savings, so this will mark as the starting point towards that 1 million dollars. Graham the tortoise was morphing into something of a hare by being a reliable co-worker at his firm. You know that the takeaway from that story is that it's better to be a tortoise, right? Really?

Well, what else is faster than a tortoise? A raccoon? Graham and the antithesis of value investing Graham would make several important discoveries about the ins and outs of Wall Street during his years at Neuberger, discoveries that would be pivotal in forming a more sophisticated theory on stock market investing. Graham said that in the early days of Wall Street, most didn't draw a distinct enough line between their financial operations and racetrack betting. To the old veterans on Wall Street, it seemed silly to analyze and gather financial data when what actually mattered, according to them, were human factors. The famous they that were responsible for all large movements in stocks. What was important was being first knowing what they would do next. As Graham said, their intelligence had been corrupted by their experience.

Graham would change this style of thinking by bringing a much more scientific touch to security analysis. He wanted to separate investing and speculation once and for all. Graham the money manager Being a good student at Columbia came with benefits. Not only did it land Graham his first job, it also landed him his first investing client. He had earned the trust of his old professor in English, who set Graham up with his first $10,000 and a really beneficial deal where they would split the investment profits 50/50. This would be Graham's first taste of real success. Early on, he was able to pull several thousand dollars of profits from the partnership, but it would eventually turn on him when the market got sour in a peace scare. Crazy! Mr. Market was pushing down stock prices because there was talk about ending a world war? You just can't trust this guy!

Graham and his old professor agreed that Graham should pay back the loss in the account at a rate of $60 per week. These were the things that kept Graham up at night. What had gone wrong? And what could he do to improve the next time? Graham the junior partner In 1920, at age 26, Graham became a junior partner at Neuberger with a 2.5 interest in the profits of the business without liability for losses According to his memoirs My share in the profits ran at about $5,000 per annum during the four years that I enjoyed it. By now, Graham had probably begun to forget about his poor childhood The wind of change was blowing The stock market was now entering the roaring 20s and Graham's reputation as an innovator within arbitraging and hedging grew.

He was fearless in investing in deals that looked pretty complex to the general public, such as buying bonds and preferred shares with convertible privileges. We'll examine the four areas Graham exploited to beat the market soon. graham harris grayhar with graham's growing reputation came a growing interest in using his service as a money manager Graham was approached by a man named Lewis Harris in 1923 who came with an offer I'll give you $250,000.  you guarantee me a 6 return and you'll get 20 of the profits above that.  plus, I'll give you a $10,000 salary. Whoa, a $10,000 salary and profit sharing? What was Neuberger's countroffer going to be this time? Actually, the third time's the charm, and Neuberger had to let Graham go at this point. Graham had additional motives besides this lucrative deal.

Quote, For a long time I had felt that I did not belong in the brokerage business, which repelled me at bottom because I felt, then at least, that I could prosper only at the expense of its clients' losses. So in June 1923, Graham became a manager of $250,000 from a major investor plus $250,000 in additional capital from the FFF friends, family and fools. The really observant viewer would notice something interesting about these numbers. $500,000 in assets under management, $10,000 per year in salary and 20 of the profits? That's awfully similar to the 2 and 20 fee agreement that is standard in the hedge fund industry today. Actually, even though Alfred W.

Jones is credited with coining the phrase hedge fund and with creating the first hedge fund structure in 1949, Graham was way before him in a sense.

So if you read any place that the hedge fund concept originated in 1949, presumably with A.W. Jones, it's not an accurate history.

The company's name was the Greyhar Corporation. Graham plus Harris equals to Greyhar. In a 1955 hearing Graham said that My own participation was very small. I had very little money. So Graham had yet to make any real leaps towards that first million, but he was soon going to. Graham and the joint account These days, the 2 and 20 fee structure would be considered quite expensive with the emergence of index funds etc. But in Graham's days, it wasn't really People told Graham that he should up the ante with Lewis Harris Said and done, Graham suggested a new fee structure for the corporation I'll skip the salary, but in return, I'd like to make 20 of the first 20%, 30 of the next 30%, and 50 of everything above that, before your guaranteed return of 6%, of course.

I don't want to spend too much time on these mathematics, but let's just say that this was was an explosive setup for accumulating wealth for Graham, but it was declined by Lewis Harris. And so, the Greer Corporation was restructured without the principal investor in January 1926. The new version was called the benjamin graham joint account, and the initial capital, even without Harris' participation, was $450,000.  now Graham had a sharpened wealth-accumulating sword.  but without the salary, it could cut both ways.  in fact, it was just about to. Graham the teacher Ben's articles in the magazine of Wall Street had been such a success that he began to consider a larger project. A vague idea about a book that would lay out the foundational principles of investing.

He thought teaching a class would be optimal for organizing material and testing his presentations. In 1927, he began teaching advanced security analysis at his own old college, Colombia. Their class was completely swamped. In retrospect, it is easy to understand why. They were near the top of one of the greatest bull markets in history. Graham just shy of $1 million. Graham's first few years as a money manager couldn't have been better. The roaring 20s was called so for a reason. While 1926 showed only a mediocre return of 4 in the general market, 1927 ticked in at 28 and 1928 returned a mouth-watering 50%. And Graham and his shareholders did even better.

The joint account traded in arbitrages, bargain issues, liquidations and related hedges, which we'll get to really soon. And it did so using a margin of around 40-50%, meaning Graham had borrowed money to invest in one of the strongest bull markets in history. The account and Graham's personal wealth completely exploded. Kahn and Milne writes the following in Benjamin Graham, the Father of Financial Analysis The year 1928 was the last full year of the bull market, with a 51 return for the Dow Jones Industrials and a 60 return for the joint account, after Ben's share that exceeded $600,000. In Graham's memoirs, there's a chapter titled the great bull market of the 1920s I Became a Near Millionaire. At this point in his life, Graham was convinced that he knew it all. He thought he had Wall Street by the tail.

He thought about the luxuries that he would soon enjoy. A large yacht, a villa at Newport, maybe even some mistresses. Later, he'd say that he was too young then to realize his hubris, and he would pay for that. Graham flying too close to the Sun. The Dow peaked at 381 in September 1929 and then dropped like a to just 41 on the ultimate bottom in July 1932. That's almost a 90 decline. Imagine that! Take whatever number you have in your portfolio right now and imagine someone just ripping away 90%. Ugh! The horror! There's never been another bear market like it. Had Graham stayed with his 40-50 margin, he and his investors would have been completely wiped out. It didn't start out well.

Graham lost 20 versus 15 for the Dow in 1929 and 50 versus 29 in 1930. Graham would later call the year the by far worst in the 33-year history of my fund management. After this incident, Graham basically never borrowed money to invest in stocks again, and in 1931 and 1932, at least he did better than the rest of the investing community. Because of the way Graham's compensation in the joint account was arranged, he would go on without receiving a dime for five full years after the crash. This undoubtedly made a dent in his net worth and it also changed the way he thought about material wealth The true key to material happiness lay in a modest standard of living which could be achieved with little difficulty under almost all economic conditions.

He and the family had moved into an expensive duplex apartment at 81st Central Park West that cost $11,000 per year and during the worst of times they had to sublease it. Graham's call to arms In 1932 Graham wrote a three-piece series in Forbes titled Is American business worth more dead than alive? Here he argued that sure in 1929 the stock market had been overvalued, but now after a 90 decline the situation was the complete reverse More than 30 of the stocks on the New York Stock Exchange was selling for less than their net cash. This is insane by the way. I screened for this real quick and today only 1 of the companies on the NYSE are that cheap. And if you want them to be profitable as well, that's just 0.1%.

Graham later referred to this period as the good old days when we paid only for the present and could get the future for nothing. By 1935 the market had turned, and the losses in the joint account had been repaid Graham and security analysis Graham had thought about releasing his first book on the stock market before the 1929 crash, but later said that it was lucky that he didn't. The book wouldn't have been complete without that experience. In 1934, Graham, with the help of David Dodd, released what may now be considered as the Bible of value investing Security Analysis. It added greatly to the investing community's knowledge, and to Graham's net worth as it sold over 100,000 copies during its first 40 years.

His book sales would be one of three vehicles that would carry him back out of the bear market to his first $1 million. Graham and the graham newman corporation graham wasn't really the leader or management type of guy and he went out looking for someone who could take that responsibility off his shoulders He wanted to focus on investing not pampering clients He found Jerry Newman, the brother of a childhood friend, and they worked so well together that Graham offered him a 50/50 deal in the joint account. After the IRS questioned the joint account's status as a partnership, Graham and Newman formed a new corporation, the Graham Newman Corporation, in 1936. This was the second of the three vehicles carrying Graham to his first million dollars.

The deal was a salary of $10,000 to $15,000 and 20 of the profits after shareholders received a guaranteed 6%. The assets under management at this point was around $3 million. So, just like with the hedge fund, Graham was first, contrary to conventional wisdom. The original Ben Jerry was not founded in 1978, but in 1936. Mostly, Graham and Newman got along really well, but they couldn't get away from the fact that Graham was a practitioner and a teacher, while Newman was a pure businessman. Graham would often spill the beans about what holdings they had in their portfolio to teach from example in his class at Columbia. The class then bought the stocks, beating up their prices so that Graham and Newman could no longer buy them at the bargain levels they wished for. Newman was furious.

graham's four market beaters in the 1946 letter to shareholders of the graham-newman corporation, graham and Newman list how much of their capital they have in each of six different categories.  four of them were especially interesting, as Graham later described in the intelligent investor.  let's look at an example from each of them so that we can really get inside the head of the father of value investing.

arbitrages Rockwood and company wanted to sell off a large cocoa bean inventory because prices had recently soared in the commodity The issue was that it would incur a 50 tax if it was just sold in the normal way A loophole in the tax code allowed the company to create an ingenious plan to avoid this Rockwood offered to repurchase its stock in exchange for the cocoa beans 80 pounds per share Since the share sold for less than 48, which was the value of 80 pounds of cocoa beans at the time, an unusual opportunity appeared that Graham/Buffett, who was working for Graham Newman at the time, seized. They bought Rockwood shares and exchanged them for beans which they immediately sold, pocketing the difference. Buffett said that the only real expense was subway tokens, as physical certificates had to be transported to different areas of New York.

Bargain issues Northern Pipeline was selling at $65 per share and paid $6 in dividends, easily covered by earnings In addition, as was almost always the case with Graham, he watched the balance sheet of stock market companies very closely, the company held high-grade bonds valued at $95 per share This is a perfect case of limited downside and high upside. The dividend and the bonds should limit the downside, and simultaneously, if the company would liquidate the bonds and give a special dividend to shareholders, there's a massive upside. This happened in 1928 when shareholders received $70 per share in dividend plus the share had appreciated to $100 each.

liquidations guggenheim exploration company held a lot of assets in other listed companies and it had recently announced that it would dissolve It would sell its assets and distribute them to the shareholders The price of the shares was $68.88 each when Graham purchased, and he thought the value of the company's assets was $76.23 per share. In other words, it appeared that he could make $7.35 per share. It didn't take long either, just 4 months later he had made that 11 return. If you think that this sounds similar to Northern Pipeline and bargain issues, you are totally correct. The difference is that in a liquidation scenario, the course of action has already been announced, and the most important question for the intelligent investor is How long will my money be tied up before the payout?

related hedges paramount pictures corporation had issued a preferred share with $6 in dividends that, at the time, was convertible into 7 common shares At a certain point, the preferred share sold at $113, against almost $16 for the common. So, just the conversion privilege of the preferred share was worth $112 at the time. In addition, the preferred share had $12 in accumulated dividends, which had to be paid before the common stock could receive anything. Clearly, if the common stock was worth $16, the preferred share was worth at least $124. A shrewd investor could have bought the preferred and sold the common short, essentially betting that the price difference will shrink over time when Mr. Market realizes his mistake.

Interestingly, Graham would switch between these four categories depending on whether he thought the general market was expensive. In 1943, for example, he thought the market was fairly low and so he put more money in the bargain issues, which usually consisted of common stocks. When he felt the market was more expensive, such as in 1946, he moved money away from common stocks into special situations such as arbitrages, liquidations and related hedges. Why? Because results from these special situations were more or less the same no matter if a bull market or a bear market was coming. Here's rare footage which tells us something about how Graham judged whether markets were high or low.

One of the comparisons that's interesting is one not between 1929, which is so long ago, but 1950, which is only a few years ago. It would be very proper to ask why are prices twice as much as they are now when the earnings of companies both in '54 and probably in 1955 are less. And the explanation cannot be found in any mathematics, but it has to be found in investor psychology. You can have an extraordinary difference in the price level merely because not only speculators but investors themselves are looking at the situation through rose-colored glasses rather than dark blue glasses.

Graham the intelligent investor warren buffett read Benjamin Graham's book The Intelligent Investor when he was just 19 and it established in him an investing framework that has lasted a lifetime His comments about the book range from the fairly modest no one ever got poor by reading Graham to the stronger by far the best book on investing ever written I've listed the three most important takeaways from the book on the channel before and I'm not sure that I can top that, so here it goes Intrinsic value A stock is a piece of a business, which means that it has an intrinsic or real value Mr. Market The stock market swings from too pessimistic to too optimistic. A true investor is not swayed by Mr. Market's unpredictable moods and merely sees rising and falling prices as an opportunity, not as a conveyor of information.

Margin of safety Decisions in the stock market must always be made with a built-in margin of safety. This means that you should insist on buying stocks with a large discount to their intrinsic business value. There is newly gained interest in the intelligent investor each time there is a bear market. In times of turmoil, the sound principles of the father of value investing will be your bacon. Beacon. Graham and Geico The third and final vehicle that turned Graham into a millionaire was a shrewd investment in what was about to become one of the largest insurance companies in America. Geico. Yes, that Geico.

Fifteen minutes could save you 15 or more on car insurance. Everybody knows that. Well, did you know certain cartoon characters should never have an energy drink?

Graham liked to own tons of stocks, often up to 100, but he also took occasional big bets when he was convinced that he was correct. Such was the case when he invested about one fourth of the Graham-Newman Corporation's assets in a 50 interest in GEICO in 1948. The GEICO stock was distributed to shareholders in the same year because of a misunderstanding of the rules regarding ownership of insurance companies. Graham was the owner of about 1 of the company at the time. He even became its chairman between 1949 and 1957. And this was a tremendous ride. Graham describes it in the postscript of the intelligent investor In fact, it did so well that the price of its shares advanced to 200 times or more the price paid for the half-interest.

And, ironically enough, the aggregate of profits accruing from this single investment decision far exceeded the sum of all the others realized through 20 years of wide-ranging operations. It is interesting that an investor who, after the 1929 crash, had become so cautious, would make this type of bet and of course also be proven right on it. You know what they say about opportunity and the prepared mind.

Graham the millionaire Now let's try to put this all together We know book sales of Security Analysis and the Intelligent Investor We know the results of the Graham-Newman Corporation and the fee structure that they used there especially in 1946 and forward where we have detailed numbers and we know how the share price of GEICO developed Combining these three vehicles, adding federal and state tax, and then estimating how much money Graham spent per year, my guesstimate is that he became a millionaire in 1953. There is no official record or anything, so I had to spend a lot of time in books, shareholder letters and databases to make an educated guess. Also, it's important to consider that $1 million in those days are equal to something like $11.3 million today.

Graham became a millionaire by Getting a solid education Working his way up the ladder and becoming knowledgeable in his craft before Setting up his own company, where he would profit big as long as the customers also did Sharing the knowledge he had accumulated through the years in books and Betting big when the opportunity seemed right, at a time in his life where he could afford being wrong Limited downside, maximum upside As stated in the intro of the video, such a course of action can be implemented today too, almost a century later. Now, check out this video on how another legendary investor, Charlie Munger, became a millionaire. If you do, please excuse my ignorance regarding American presidents. Cheers!

This is a recording of excerpts of the United States Committee on Banking and Currency hearings on the stock market and buying and selling equity securities. The person questioned by the committee is Benjamin Graham, author of the intelligent investor.  the acclaimed book is the favourite of investor Warren Buffett, who tributes it to changing his life and commencing his investment strategy, which made him the greatest investor of all time.  your narrator is Ian Whittaker, copyright 2017 IDP.  the Chairman. Thank you very much, Mr. Graham. In connection with your own company, does it invest in a representative sample of the best stocks in the market, or does it use some other guide for investment? Mr. Graham? No, we have not been purchasing the market leaders. Our business has been something of a speciality business. We have emphasized the purchasing power. of securities selling under intrinsic value and have gone to what is generally known as special situation.

The Chairman. Would you tell us what specialty situations are and how you approach it? How do you determine whether special situation is undervalued or not? Mr. Graham. There is a slight distinction between an overvalued security as such and a special situation. I shall try and make that distinction clear. In the first place, with respect to a special situation as it is known in Wall Street, that is, a security upon study is believed to have a probability of increasing in value for reasons not related to the movement of stock prices in general, but related to some development in the company's affairs. That would be particularly a matter such as recapitalisation and reorganisation, merger or so forth. The typical example of a special situation is a company in trusteeship undergoing reorganization. Because of the fact that it is in trusteeship the securities tend to sell at less than their intrinsic value.

When the reorganization is completed the proper value is established and and there will normally be a profit in the purchases of such securities. There are other examples of that kind. The public utility breakups were a very interesting generic group of securities because we had an underlying situation in which these holding companies, being in ill favour in general with the investing public, tended to sell at less than the value of the constituent companies. With respect to undervalued securities in general, not special situations that would be based upon a process of security analysis which shows by study of the company's balance sheet and income account that it is selling considerably less than its intrinsic value, which in general can be defined as considerably less than the value of the company to a private owner. The Chairman. How do you evaluate management, Mr Graham?

Management is one of the most important factors in evaluation of a leading company and it has great effect on the The Chairman No That is very exceptional. I would say that out of about 400 companies that we may have invested in in the last few years, there would be not more than 8 or 4 in which we would have had an interest in acquiring control. The Chairman. You would have if you thought the management was bad, would you not? I mean that would be one of the principal elements in that case. Mr Graham. That could be a reason for our seeking control, hoping to improve the management situation. The Chairman How do you go about acquiring large blocks without disturbing the market too much?

Do you do it in your own name or what is the procedure? Mr Graham Well, there are two procedures. One is to acquire shares in the open market over a period of time. The other is by making a bid for a specified or unspecified number of shares, which is made public and which all stockholders have the opportunity to accept. The Chairman. I assume that you specialise in special situations. You analyse it and after considerable work I take it you decide that it is undervalued and is a good special situation. You start buying in the market and you reveal your interest and everyone knows what you are doing.  i wondered how you proceed.  mr.  graham, that could happen, but very often it does not.  i give you an example.  in a book I wrote, the intelligent investor, i gave an example of an undervalued security, the Northern Pacific Railroad stock, which at the time of my first analysis sold at 20 and later went down to 14.

The chairman. Of that, Mr Graham, there were about two and a half million shares altogether. The chairman, that is a pretty big company. Mr Graham, yes indeed, but that was a large investment for us. But there are other instances in which where companies are small, it is not equally feasible to acquire shares in the open market and it might be desirable to make a bid or offer as it is generally called to acquire shares in some public way. The chairman you make no effort to conceal your interest in a special situation or to deal through trust companies or other accounts.

mr graham well in most of our purchases the vast majority of them the purchase of shares is the same way any one else would through brokerage houses who act for us and there is no concealment the chairman Mr Graham, well, you might say that virtually all companies that are acquired in the open market, I mean where control is acquired in the open market, in virtually all these cases there is some degree of concealment. That is to say, nobody publishes the fact that he and his group are acquiring control in the open market. It would obviously be unwise from a business point of view. Sometimes the news gets around, but generally it is unofficial. There have been a few instances, comparatively few, in which efforts are made to acquire control of a company generally through a reputable bank or trust company where the name of the purchaser is not revealed. In other cases it is revealed. The Chairman.

We have had suggestions that this is done and I was wondering what the process is and whether or not you do it or have done it. I wonder if you could describe for us the way that you can acquire control without revealing your identity. not applicable to yourself necessarily, how would anyone do it? Mr Graham, well, outside of the method of acquiring control in the open market, which I've said before is the most customary way, the other method would be to ask a bank or a trust company to communicate to the stockholders an offer to buy the shares generally at a price above the market and state the acquisition is being made for clients of the trust company without giving their names.  the chairman.  there is no requirement if a trust company purchases stock on the exchange to reveal the beneficial owner.  is that right? Do they not have to say we are buying this for Mr Jones or mr smith? mr graham.  no, obviously not, sir.

the chairman so that would be the usual way simply to use an established firm which is in and out of the market for your agent to purchase for you mr graham yes that would not be a trust company normally that would be a brokerage firm The Chairman.  does a broker have to reveal who his principal is? mr graham.  no.  on the contrary, it is one of the basic principles of Wall Street that relationship between the broker and the client is confidential, and the name should not be revealed except to authorities who have legitimate reasons. to ask for the information. The chairman. That is an important exception. What about a trust company? If the Chase National Bank purchases shares and they are asked by the president of the exchange to whom they are buying for, do they tell them? Is it the same as the broker? Mr.  graham, the president of the new york stock exchange has no authority over anyone except members of the new york stock exchange.  the chairman.  well then, there is a difference.

as to the brokers, he has access to the beneficial owner, but he does not have as to the trust company.  is that right, Mr.  graham? That would be true with respect to the president of the Stock Exchange, yes.  the chairman.  who would have control? The SEC? Mr. Graham, as a reservation, I am not certain of the constitution of the stock exchange, the president's power to ask the brokers for the names of their clients or their dealings. But I assume that in the investigations that the stock exchanges make into its own dealings, including such as manipulation and so forth, such information is asked for and given. The chairman, I understand that with regard to the members for disciplinary purposes that they have the right to inquire but I would not be too certain about that. Mr Graham, I believe that is so, but I am not sure.

The Chairman When there is a battle for control of a company, the stockholders who intend to remain with the company would want to know whether they should participate in the battle or should sell out, and the identity of the purchaser would be important to them in such circumstances, would it not? Mr Graham, well, if you are speaking for a battle for control in terms of proxy battle, of course, the identity of the people who are endeavouring to obtain the majority of the votes by proxy solicitation is absolutely vital. And the proxy rules require that complete disclosure be made as of the identity. of such persons. With respect to purchases of shares, however, that is an entirely different matter. And the theory of the stock market is that people are allowed to purchase shares anonymously. It will be a little embarrassing for many people if each time they bought and sold shares, their identity would have to be revealed. The Chairman.

of course it is not done customarily but it is subject to being revealed in an investigation at any time is it not mr graham as far as i know the revelations of purchasers of shares have been limited pretty much to criminal activities i do not recall cases in which the names of buyers have been revealed even though they may be known to the authorities merely because these people can happen to have bought stock the chairman did you recall lawrence portland cement company did you make an attempt to gain control of that company mr graham yes in association with other people who at that time i believe were either the largest or second largest holders we made a bid for a specified number of shares it did not succeed the price advanced above our bid price and consequently we did not get any quantity of the stock the chairman.  no.

on the contrary, what happened was that the company itself went into the market and forced up the price above our bid price.  the Chairman. Mr Graham, no, but we made a blanket offer to the stockholders to turn in their stock to us at a given price, which was above the market at the time the offer was made. The Chairman, what was your offer? Mr Graham, I think it was 26 a share.  the chairman.  when was that? Mr Graham.  four years ago perhaps.  the chairman.  what is it selling for now? Mr Graham.  i do not know.  the chairman.  has it been split? Mr Graham.  it has advanced and the name has been changed.  dragon portland cement.  the chairman.  i am told that allowing for the split it is now selling... one hundred and thirty a share. That vindicates your judgment, does it not? Mr. Graham, I wish we had been able to buy it, yes.

the chairman. Was it true that in this case you got no stock at all? Mr Graham, no, because our offer was a contingent offer. We made an offer to the stockholders to buy their shares at a price above the then market, provided a sufficient number of shares would be deposited. What happened then was, as I said before, that the officers of the company, not wishing this bid to succeed, went into the market and pushed the price of the stock above our price. As a result, people did not turn in any number of shares to speak of and we dropped the whole thing the chairman i am not sure do you wish to discuss these individual cases or not mr graham well i have no strong feeling on the matter i do not know to what extent it would be useful to the committee If it is useful to the committee, I have no objection. The Chairman. I do not wish to embarrass you about it. I had understood that it was quite all right. The only purpose is that we have had a number of people here who have discussed general principles. None of them, I believe, were what we called...

active traders. I suppose that is where you are, is it not? Mr Graham, we do not consider ourselves as traders in the ordinary sense. Technically, you might call us that. The Chairman, what I was trying to do was to illustrate procedures that are followed by people actually in the market. If you do not care to be questioned about individual cases, I would not want to press the matter. Mr Graham, I have no sensitivities on the subject at all. We are very proud of our achievements in our company. The Chairman, I thought maybe you were a little reluctant in the case of the dragon cement to discuss the details. Mr Graham, I am not reluctant Senator except I do not remember the details too well. I was not active personally in the matter. The Chairman, can you think offhand of other similar examples of intent to gain control? Mr Graham, you mean examples similar to the one made in Lawrence? Well there was one recently.  i'm trying to remember the name.  i remember that a trust company in Boston, the chairman, the Atlantic Gulf or west indies steamship company.

mr graham, no that was a different situation.  you are referring now to our own experience.  the Atlantic Gulf and West Indies was quite a different situation.  at the time we made an agreement with the chief stockholder of that company to purchase I think the greater part of his holdings and made a correspondence bonding bid to everybody else to buy their shares at the same price, which was considerably above the market at the time we began our negotiations. The chairman, was that a negotiated sale you were trying to effect off the exchange or was it a listed stock? Mr Graham, yes it was a listed stock. The negotiation was done with the large stockholder and the rest was an offer extended to all the stockholders on the same terms. The Chairman Was that negotiation directly with the stockholder? Mr Graham That is correct. The Chairman Did it succeed? Mr Graham Yes it did. The Chairman You did not use an intermediary in that case?

Mr Graham No, that offer went over our name I believe. The difference was this At that time, we had already arranged to buy a large amount of this stock, and we felt that, for one thing, that should be a matter of record, and was made a matter of record. The Chairman. So, that is an illustration of the successful way purchase control of a company.  mr Graham.  yes, it is much more desirable to buy it by negotiation to begin with.  the Chairman.  do you think there is any serious problem from the public's point of view with regard to the anonymous purchase of stock, especially with regard to gaining control of a company? mr graham.  senator, i have observed this thing for the last 40 years.  i cannot think of a single case in which the public has been hurt by office to by control whether the names were revealed or not revealed. In every such instance the public has been helped because they have been able to get a higher price for their shares than they would have been able to get if no such bid had been made.

The Chairman. You see nothing wrong with that procedure. I am not arguing with you. I am only asking you. Mr Graham. I have had occasion to think about the matter for a long time, Senator, and it seems to me that the true arguments are all, from the public's standpoint, ineffective. Mr Graham, we are technically an open-end company and practically a closed-end company. Let me explain that. We are registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 as an open-end company, which means that we are contractually obliged to pay the company's interest. to repurchase shares at any time at the net asset value when presented to us. However, no such shares have been presented to us for a great many years.

Our shares have sold consistently at well over their net asset value Furthermore, we have not sold any shares of stock to the public at any time and have not increased our capitalisation for many years, so that we operate actually as a closed-end company, namely with a fixed capitalisation. The Chairman, what is the Capital? Are these trade secrets or not? Mr Graham, not at all. They would not be a secret in any case, Senator. But as it happens, our figures are made public. They are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We have 5,000 shares of stock with present asset value in the order of...

one thousand one hundred a share and with a market price rather considerably above that the chairman a market price above that mr graham that's right the chairman but the shares sell very seldom i understand mr graham that is true they are very infrequent sales none the less there are quite a number of them in the course of a year or two the chairman when was your company started mr graham the company was incorporated in nineteen thirty six but it was a continuation of a business which was set up in nineteen twenty six the chairman to what do you attribute your great success in this business mr graham well senator that is assuming that we have made a great success the chairman would you not consider it a success mr graham i will admit that we think it is but i did not want to be in the position of passing over your question as taking for granted that we have made a great success The Chairman I will take responsibility for saying you obviously have made a success.

Mr Graham I think our success is due to having established sound principles of purchase and sale of securities and having followed them consistently through all kinds of markets. The Chairman I take it that ordinary members of the public cannot buy your shares, is that right? Mr Graham Well, they cannot buy them in unlimited amounts but they can buy them over the counter in small amounts. The Chairman Are they quoted over the counter? Mr Graham They are quoted over the counter, yes sir. The Chairman At what? 1,100? Mr Graham I would say probably around 1,250 or 1,300 a share now. The Chairman Above the asset value? Mr Graham That is correct sir.

The Chairman is it customary for open-end companies to be selling above their asset value mr graham well it is unusual for any investment company to sell above its asset value but there are a number of instances the best known instance is the lehman corp for which a good part of the time sells above its asset value That, however, is a closed-end company.  it is impossible for an open-end company to sell at more than the selling premium over its asset value as long as it offers shares of stock to the public.  that is obvious.  in some instances, a company like State Street Investments has followed a policy like ours and has not offered shares generally to the public and the shares have sold at a premium.  the Chairman.  do you personally control your company? mr graham.  no, i am a comparatively small stockholder. The chairman.  you are? Mr Graham.  yes, sir.  the chairman.  does your family control it? mr graham.  no.  we have a comparatively small number of shares.  the chairman.

does any one family or person control it or it is distributed rather evenly? Mr Graham.  the shares are distributed fairly evenly.  i would say it is a family with whom we have no relationship that represents the largest holding of the present time. the chairman if someone wishes to sell their shares they still can demand what from you mr graham they can demand the net asset value the chairman which of course they do not do because they can get more mr graham that is correct we have not taken in any shares for many years The Chairman, what inspired you to form an investment company? You did start this investment company, did you not?

Mr Graham, yes, I may say that I entered the brokerage business in 1914 and became a junior member of a stock exchange firm and in 1923 I believed that sound investing principles would be successful and I started a private fund in 1923 which was changed around in 1924. A private fund would be one in which no offering was made to the general public through advertisements, circulars or in any other way but merely to friends who were permitted and asked to contribute. The chairman. How large was that company? Mr Graham. It was about half a million dollars at the beginning.

the chairman just you and your friends mr graham that is correct sir my own participation was very small i had very little money the chairman you started buying stock is that right mr graham stocks and bonds yes the chairman i would be interested if you do not mind telling us to have the history of this development Mr Graham, well Senator, if you feel there isn't any value in this, the Chairman, yes there is, because we like to get some feel of how these trust companies develop. However, I do not wish to embarrass you. If you think it puts you to a disadvantage with competitors or anyone else, you do not have to. Mr Graham, no Senator, I have been accused of telling all my secrets. I have written a number of books and I reveal them all in these books. The Chairman. I was particularly interested to know what happened to you in 1932. Mr Graham. We had a rough going. The Chairman You first started at the beginning with half a million dollars.

What happened until 1929? Mr Graham We were quite successful and the fund grew to two and a half million dollars at the beginning of 1929. The Chairman In stocks I take it. Mr Graham In stocks and bonds. The Chairman What did you do in 1929? Mr Graham In 1929 we lost money. The Chairman Well a lot. Did you go down with the market or see it coming or what? Mr Graham, we did pretty well in 1929 alone, but the real difficulty we experienced in 1930 and 1931 when the market went much further downward than we had anticipated. We had pretty well anticipated the 1929 decline and so our resources were shrunk pretty much. I do not think they shrunk as much as General Wood's pension funded, which we mentioned before.

they went down fairly low and it was not until 1936 that a person who had been with us in 1929 and had held on would find himself even but by 1936 he was even in our business.  the Chairman You say you changed.  when did it become a registered investment company? Mr Graham It became a registered investment company in 1941 after the passage of the investment company act.  the chairman what happened in 1936? Did not some change occur? Mr Graham Mr Graham, we incorporated for a very peculiar reason. We had originally operated as a joint account and the individual members reported on a partnership basis. The chairman, each participant in the fund, Mr Graham, that is correct, reported his share of the results, but before 1936 the Treasury claimed that we were an associate. taxable as a corporation and we had considerable problems as to where we stood, whether we were or were not a corporation.

So our council said you had better incorporate and settle this matter once and for all because the Treasury will get you either way. The Chairman. This was the original group of friends, is that right? Mr Graham, that is correct. The Chairman. That is all you were in 1936? Mr Graham, there were accretions on the private business. I had more friends in 1936 than I had in 1923. The Chairman When did you make them? During the depression? mr graham not so many as afterwards.  the Chairman You incorporated in 1936 and in 1941 you registered.  when did you sell any stock to the public? Or did you ever sell any? You have 5,000 shares you say? mr graham yes.  may i say that we originally had more shares that is.  we sold stock up to 50,000 shares with a normal par value and stated value of $100 a share. The chairman, when did you do that?

Mr Graham, well we did that in series by offering rights primarily to our older stockholders and that built our capital up to $5 million, consisting of 50,000 shares worth about $100 a share. But we discovered, and this may interest you Senator, that we were beginning to get a great many one-share stockholders, people we had never heard of, who came in and invested $100 and then got our reports and found out what we were doing and imitated it. So to deal with that situation... we perpetrated a reverse split up in which we issued one share for 10, increased the unit value in the market to about 1,200 or 1,300 a share. And from that time on, we did not get quite so many one share stockholders. The chairman, what do you charge for managing the investment company? You are the manager of the company, is that right? Mr. Graham, I am one of three managers.  the other two managers are mr.  jerome a.

newman, who has been a partner of mine since 1927, and his son, mr.  howard a.  newman. The Chairman Is it public knowledge what you charge? Mr Graham Yes, we charge a great deal. We pay ourselves salaries on the order of $25,000 and $15,000 and we have a profit sharing plan under which after a $40 share dividend is earned and paid in any year the management as a whole receives 20 of the additional amount earned and paid. The Chairman Are your earnings largely capital gains? Mr Graham, yes, very largely capital gain. As a matter of fact, you might say they are almost exclusively so. The Chairman, I hope it is clear that if you do not wish to say, if it is a matter that you do not wish to discuss, particularly your own compensation, I am not trying to fish. This is just illustrative of what I assume is typically a successful man, and if you do not care to answer, I hope you will feel free to say so.

Mr Graham, I would just like to make two remarks about that. In the first place, I have no hesitation whatever in telling you the things that the investors in my fund know, obviously. But secondly, I think it is a misconception to consider that we are typical managers of a successful firm. Our arrangement is very unusual. The Chairman, I want to clear up the misconception. That is exactly why you are here. Why is it not typical? I would like you to describe what a typical situation is. Mr Graham, the difference is first that our compensation arrangement is much more liberal than that received by other investment funds. This 20 which we receive on excess earnings is a very large percentage. The Chairman, but that depends on what you pay. You said $40 a share, which struck me as a rather liberal dividend. Mr Graham, That is just the base dividend.  we paid $340 a share last year.  the Chairman.  that is still better than General Motors paid.  mr graham.

yes, i just want to make two things clear, sir.  one is that our compensation arrangement is much more liberal in its terms than the standard arrangement.  secondly, we believe, I think our stockholders believe, that we earn our compensation because our results to them after deducting compensation have been good. The chairman. I assumed that or you would not be there. I was trying to get a picture of this business. You are helping us a great deal, I may say. Can you put it in a little different terms so that we can compare your situation with the managers of some of the well-known firms? I would appreciate it if you would put that in the record so that we will have it. Mr Graham. Oh yes, the difference is tremendous between our own situation and that of a typical investment fund. Let us take the largest one, Massachusetts. Investors Trust. Their capital may be 100 times ours. Their expenses are very much less than 100 times ours. Their expense burden is very little percentage-wise as compared with ours.

The trustees receive compensation on the order of maybe one-fourth of 1 on capital. The chairman, wait a minute, of earnings or capital, Mr Graham, that would be capital. The chairman, per year, one-quarter of 1 Mr Graham, no, I think I have overstated it. It might have been that much at one time. I think it is less now. As the capital grows, the percentage of compensation to the trustees has diminished. Frankly speaking, I should not be talking about this because I do not know it well enough, but I do know in general that their rate of compensation is very conservative in relation to the funds that they handle. The chairman, what percentage of the capital invested in your funds is represented by the compensation to management. Can you express it in terms of what would be comparable? Would it be 1 Mr Graham, well, let us put it this way.

Over a period of years, we've tended to earn about 20 on capital per year before compensation, and about 3 of that has been paid to management as compensation, leaving 17 for the stockholders. The chairman, 3 of the earnings? Mr Graham, no, 3 on capital out of the 20 earned on capital. The chairman, I do not follow you there. You earn 20 on the invested capital per year, is that right? Mr Graham, that is roughly true on average. The chairman, what percentage of the 20 did you get as management? Mr Graham, we got about 15%, the reason being that there is a 4 deduction first. The Chairman, 15 of the 20 earned, Mr Graham. That is right. Not 15 out of 20 leaving 5, but 15 of 20.

The chairman leaving 85 of the stockholders of the 20. Mr. Graham, that is right. The chairman. I understand that. Maybe it is a silly question and you never do it, but is it ever translated into a percentage of the capital invested per year? Mr Graham, well these figures I'm giving you start with the percentage of capital invested. The Chairman, no that is earnings. Mr Graham, well we earn 20 on capital. I may summarise once again, taking that as typical result on capital, the stockholders have gotten 17 on their capital and we have gotten an amount equivalent to 3 on their capital. The chairman, I see, whereas the normal or average investment company, I take it, is less than 1%, is that right? Mr Graham, yes, that is certainly true. The chairman, you get three times as much. as the average or better. Mr Graham, that is true. The Chairman, well I take it you are worth it, you manage it more effectively than they do. Is that not correct?

Mr Graham, well naturally we have to believe that and our stockholders believe that. The Chairman, I take it you approach this whole business in quite a different way. Those big funds do not look for special situations. They go into the market and just buy the run of the mind, do they not? The blue chips and the bonds and so on. Is that not correct? Mr. Graham. Well, that is correct in a general way, but not completely.  some of the bigger funds, particularly like Lehman Corp, which is a large fund, has always had a rather keen interest in special situations, and a certain amount of their capital, by no means the major amount, has gone into special situations.  the Chairman When you say large, how large is lehman? mr graham lehman would be over $100 million.  the chairman of invested capital mr graham at present market values... The Chairman. As compared to yours, Mr Graham, ours is on the order of $6.5 million.

The Chairman, on market value, is that not the original investment? That is the capital as now valued on the market, is it correct? Mr Graham, that is correct. We have paid back to our stockholders virtually all the earnings that have been made, so that in a sense our present value is very similar to the amount of money paid in. The Chairman, you do not seek to increase the invested capital, I take it. Any particular reason for that? Mr Graham. The basic reason, Senator, has been that we have not believed that we could get the same satisfactory results on a very large capital as we can get on a moderate amount of capital. The Chairman. Why is that, Mr Graham? Because if you deal with special situations and undervalued securities, the markets in those, for the most part, are not very large. It is not possible to acquire an unlimited amount without affecting the market price, and if we had 10 times as much capital, it would be very difficult for us to invest in it the same way as our present capital.  the Chairman.

i know some who have undervalued stocks down in Arkansas in my hometown who might want to talk to you about it.  mr Graham.  we are always open to suggestions, senator.  the chairman.  there is no market for them.  i believe you said in your statement that as far as whether the market is too high or too low right now, You could not say it is too high or too low. I take it that you think this is a period that requires caution and you do not believe in jumping in and purchasing stocks. Mr Graham, well, let us put it this way, Senator. Quantitatively, the market seems to be about right, but qualitatively, I consider it to be on the high side and getting into a dangerous situation. The Chairman, that is, I think, a very understandable statement. That ought to be plain to anyone.

if it is about right then it means it is not likely to go up or down but is about dead centre mr graham on the contrary senator it may be about right but that is likely to be accidental a year from now pardon me sir the chairman i take it you meant the relationship between prices and earnings and income Is that a figure that is not clearly undervalued or overvalued? Is that right? Mr Graham, I would say that this is true for the most representative stocks as a whole. The Chairman, there will always be exceptions both ways. Mr Graham, yes indeed. The Chairman, I am not trying to tell you you understand. I'm rephrasing it only for the purposes of trying to understand what you said. I haven't any idea about whether it is high or low. I'm trying to put in language so I could understand what I thought you said.

did you notice the testimony of mr galbraith the other day regarding the tendency of the market and speculators losing their relationship to reality and that the market generates enthusiasm all its own for capital gains did you notice that testimony mr graham yes indeed sir the chairman would you agree with it mr graham yes i would agree with it in general terms the chairman that is interesting because he is purely an academic figure and you are a practical one and yet this is one point upon which you agree mr graham i should say senator i am something of an academic man myself the chairman i did not know that mr graham i have the title of adjunct professor of finance at columbia university and i give a course in the evaluation of common stocks The chairman. I saw you on television in an Ed Munro show, but I did not understand that you were a professor. I thought they had brought you on as a practical operator to tell them how it was done. I misunderstood.

Mr Graham. They made me a professor because I am a practical operator. The chairman. That is very unusual, is it not? Mr Graham. Yes, the Columbia School of Business has about four or five such practicing professors. The chairman. I see. I think that it is interesting because you agree that it is a dangerous element when the market becomes too over-enthusiastic and loses, as Professor Galbraith says, contact with reality. You think there is a tendency to do that at the present time? Mr Graham. Yes, there are some tendencies undoubtedly. The chairman. Then you would say, as he put it, I believe that there is too much speculative activity in the market. Mr Graham. Well, too much is a difficult phrase to define. I think if the market continued pretty much as it has been doing now in regard to the total amount of speculative activity, I would not be too concerned about the outcome. I am afraid of the cumulative effect of more and more speculative activity.

The chairman, I'm not sure that is different from the way he put it. I think he was careful to say he did not think that. that the level of prices was too high, but that during the past year, there'd been too rapid a rise, that there had not been any developments in the business world, productivity, or all the other things that would justify that rapid rise. It was the rapidity of the rise and a tendency to generate a sentiment, as he put it, of over-enthusiasm that disturbed him. He recommended, as you know, an increase in the margin requirements. Would you recommend an increase in the margin requirements? Mr Graham, I would like to duck the responsibility to this extent. I said in my statement that I feel the Federal Reserve should have no hesitation about increasing margin requirements further if it became increasingly concerned over the extent of speculation. I do not think it is necessary for me to make the decision for my friend Bill Martin, but I think the Federal Reserve has good judgment as anyone in that connection.

The Chairman, that is a proper answer. I see nothing wrong with that. It is not your... responsibility. Some though have taken a position that it would be discriminatory or a bad thing to increase the margin requirements to 100%. Do you think if the capital gains tax were eliminated and there was no tax upon capital gains that that would increase the attractiveness of speculation or decrease it. Mr Graham, on the whole, it would increase the attractiveness of speculation. The Chairman, if it did, that would tend to increase the level of prices, would it not? Mr Graham, that is my best judgment. It is true that there would be some unfreezing of shares now held by long-time owners, but my own feeling is that very likely the net result would be an increase in speculative enthusiasm. The chairman. Is it fair to ask you now whether your own company, and you do not have to answer if you do not want, is buying or selling stocks? You can be perfectly free to say you do not care to answer. Mr Graham, we have been selling on balance from our general portfolio of undervalued stocks.

securities and endeavouring to put our money into special situations which are not at the risk of the market. The Chairman, it has happened that in the past year or two you have made any particular study of any industry which is primarily dependent on defence contracts for its business? Mr Graham, no, we have no occasion to study them in any detail. We just have a general knowledge of the picture. The Chairman. Would you care to elaborate at all about your knowledge of the defence industry picture? Mr Graham. Well, it is common knowledge, of course, that the aircraft manufacturing companies are largely dependent on the defence programme. The Chairman. Would the fact that a company which is wholly dependent upon the defence contract had profits which increased in the last six months of 400 or 500 preceding year or similar period mean anything to you at all with regard to the government's contract with that company? mr graham.

senator, i did not state in my statement that I was chairman of the research committee of the war contracts price adjustment board during the war.  that is the renegotiation board and we had to consider principles of renegotiation including the profits of aircraft manufacturing concerns.  the mere increase in profits as such is not an indication that the contracts are improvident. but there is a prima facie suggestion that they be examined into. The Chairman. Do you not think that 400 or 500 is a rather unusual increase in profits in the course of 12 months? Mr Graham. I do not recall any particular instances in which that ratio existed, but if it should exist, I am sure the renegotiation people will study that with care. The Chairman.  do you think the renegotiation act ought to be renegotiated? It expired, you know, at the end of december.  mr graham.  i am convinced that it should be, or something similar.  the Chairman.  the administration has not requested. it, has it?

Mr Graham, I am not part of the administration, senator.  the chairman, i understand they did last week.  yes, it was also in the State of the Union message.  i had forgotten that.  if nothing else happens in these hearings, maybe that is worthwhile.  but you are in favour of the re-enactment of that? Mr Graham, yes indeed.  the Chairman, would you mind commenting upon the situation, which I notice reoccurs in many instances? There was a notable one this morning in the case of DuPont One of our big companies, and the same thing is true with General Motors, where so many of them have shown during 1954 a substantial increase in profits on the decreased volume. In some cases, of course, we saw in the figures of General Motors it was a difference in the excess profits tax. But I believe in many cases that plays a relatively minor part. What do you think is going on in our big industries that accounts for that? Mr Gray.

Well, of course, the first point is what you have mentioned, that the good showing for 1954 earnings in the large companies, approximately equal to the 1953 earnings in the aggregate, is due to a considerable degree of the repeal of the excess profit tax. To some extent, it is also due to the fact that corporations, both large and small, have been getting somewhat better control over their costs in recent years. That, I would say, is more true now. actually in the case of the small companies than the big ones, because the small companies suffered the most from the costs getting out of hand. The Chairman. Would such a circumstance indicate a lack of competition? Mr Graham. I do not think so, because for one thing the margin of profit in and of itself is no larger now than it was in previous years. In the case of General Motors, for example, their profit margin last year, I think after taxes, was about 8.2%.

I imagine that in 1936 it was around probably 14-15 after smaller taxes, but before taxes I would say the profit margin is approximately the same, maybe somewhat less now than it was in 1936. The Chairman You do not see anything to criticise about General Motors carrying all of the reductions in tax in profit rather than decreasing the prices. Mr Graham My own views on that may seem peculiar to you Senator, but I think that General Motors does not care to reduce its prices substantially because the effect on the competitive situation would be disastrous. General Motors has to make a very good profit in order that the other automobile companies can exist at all. If it made a small profit, some of the other automobile companies would go out of business completely.

the chairman why do you want to subsidize these other automobile companies at the expense of the poor farmer who is struggling along on a starvation diet now mr graham senator i did not suggest that the chairman the prices for these chevrolets are enormous if they could cut them eight hundred dollars it would help a lot mr graham i would like to make my point of view clear again i am not expressing my own opinion as to what should or should not be done I'm only telling you what I think General Motors policy and that General Motors itself cannot dare in the present state of the economy and political sentiment to reduce its prices to a point where other companies were forced out of business and General Motors had almost a monopoly of the business. The Chairman Well, in another way you are saying there is no competition in the automobile business, are you not?

Mr Graham, no sir, that is not true either, because in the first place competition between General Motors and Ford is very keen, and the competition between General Motors and Chrysler used to be very keen and now is again becoming keen. The Chairman, To show you how innocent I am, I do not understand it at all. I always thought the price happened to be the principal element in competition, that you could not have competition if you did not care what the price was and that all the rest was shadowboxing and just make-believe. If you were really competitive and you desired to have the market, I had thought one of the first things to do was sell cheaper. That used to be the orthodox doctrine. This idea that the competition is just in advertising to keep the price up makes no sense to the old-fashioned man. It sounds exactly like the cartel system in Germany. We split up the market and.

Take our part and then when we advertise and make people believe we are competing.  and there is no real competition.  if General Motors really is competing and desirous of obtaining the market, she would get in, would she not, by cutting the prices.  mr graham.  well senator, my view of this thing may be wrong, but it differs quite a bit from yours.  i think the competition that existed between General Motors and Chrysler, for example, was very intense. and its effect on Chrysler was almost disastrous. Chrysler lost virtually all of its earnings power last year, and although its business remained high in terms of dollars, it lost on sales cars to a point where earnings almost disappeared, and tremendous effort was necessary by Chrysler to improve its cars and to improve its selling practice. Now, that as far as I can see is more or less classical example of the actual working competition. The chairman. I am afraid I gave a false impression. I am not now at least trying to express an opinion for or against it.

I'm trying to develop whether or not there is competition in the automobile field. I'm unable to see that there is. In view of your statement that all General Motors needs to do to put them all out of business is lower the prices to where it could still get along and it would not go broke but it could break its competitors. I'm In orthodox competitive business, that is what happens, is it not? In the old days, that is what happened, is it not? I do not say I disagree with you that that would be a bad thing socially and politically it is dangerous. That is a different thing from saying that it is really dangerous. competitive. Do you really feel that it is competition or do you feel that it would be inadvisable to permit competitive forces to have their full sway? Mr Graham, could I try and summarise my view by saying that I believe there is a great deal of competition in the automobile business today, but it is not competition carried to its final conclusion. I mean the destruction of the weaker companies. The chairman.

It is sort of superficial competition, Mr Graham. It is a limited objective competition. The chairman. Some of the bureaucrats or somebody developed a term called administered prices. Is that not what it is? They can get together and decide if you go below a certain amount you can destroy Chrysler and that is not wise to destroy Chrysler. Mr Graham, as long as you are speaking of economic principle, you must remember there is such a thing as optimum or maximisation of profits, and it is quite possible that General Motors, by cutting their prices, could do more business, but at the same time earn less money. There is no reason in the world why General Motors, as an ordinary business, should not charge such prices as will give it maximum profits. The Chairman. If it ran them all out with a monopoly, they could charge what they like. Mr Graham. No, sir. The United States would interfere. The Chairman. That is what I am talking about.

you're getting into a different field and leaving the old-fashioned competition when you talk about interference by the government and what the social and political effects may be. I'm not saying this is a good or bad thing. I've heard it said before and I was interested that you confirmed that General Motors could make a reasonable profit, I think that is the language, and still destroy all of its competition because of the way it is set up and its efficiency. If you like that term, or at least its distribution and volume. I would gather you agree with that. Mr Graham, I do not know the situation intimately, but I feel that probably is so. The Chairman, I think it is important simply because as your economy changes, these different aspects arise which do not involve things beyond the immediate profits of a company. I think it would be a great catastrophe if all the other companies were put out of business. I would agree with you on that, but at the same time I do not like to kid myself. that they are out there fighting for business because they are not.

General Motors could get it if it thought it was wise to do it and still not really injure itself. Of course its own personal advantage or disadvantage regardless of the nation would be another matter. If you do not mind our staff director would like to ask you a few questions. Mr Wallace, in buying a company do you confer with management to obtain information about the company which is not generally available? Mr Graham, well, where the purchase was made by agreement with large stockholders who are part of the management, we would ordinarily, say, get a copy of the audit report and material of that kind which is not published largely, I think because it is just a matter of inconvenience to publish it, but I should add, in order to avoid a misconception, that I can think of no instance in which we have gotten information of importance which had any effect on our judgment, which information was not given to the stockholders in in connection with the offer to buy. Mr.

Wallace, to the degree that the reports are published quarterly, you might get a report on earnings in between these reports, for example, which is not published. Mr Graham, well that is conceivable amongst the report but it would be very unusual if it had any effect. I might give you an example of that.

When we made our offer to purchase the Atlantic Gulf and West Indies stock and incidentally I might say the offer was made through the Manufacturers Trust Corporation we published and I think at the suggestion of the Securities and Exchange Commission with whom we had discussions on this matter before a semi-annual balance sheet which had been supplied to us by the management and had not been made public it did not give any particular information of value but it was published as a matter of general policy mr wallace in general when you buy a block of stock do the people from whom you buy the stock have the same information that you have mr graham as far as any important pieces of information are concerned i would say yes mr wallace But if you were to buy stock on the open market on the basis of information that you had gotten conferring with management, would this be considered trading on the basis of inside information?

Mr Graham, no sir, because as I understand the interpretation of the rules, trading on the inside information applies only to those who have fiduciary relationship towards the stockholders, namely officers, directors and major stockholders. Mr Wallace, is it not illegal for an officer of the corporation to divulge to you any inside information which is not available to the public? Mr Graham, I would like to clear that point up a little bit because I am on both sides of that fence. I am an officer and director of a number of corporations and I think it is worthwhile for the Senators to get a realistic view of the way corporate affairs actually operate. A good deal of information from day to day and month to month naturally comes to the attention of directors and officers.

it is not at all feasible to publish every day a report of the progress of the company in the newspapers or send out letters to the stockholders on the other hand as a practical matter there is no oath of secrecy imposed upon the officers or directors so that they cannot say anything about that information which may come to their attention from week to week The basic point involved is that where there is a matter of major importance it is generally felt that the prompt disclosure should be made to all stockholders so that nobody would get a substantial advantage in knowing that. But there are all degrees of importance and it is very difficult to determine exactly what kind of information should or must be published and and what kind should just go to the usual grapevine route. Mr. Wallace, of course, the SEC Act itself makes it illegal for an officer of a corporation to trade on the basis of inside information. The corporation or stockholders may sue to get their profits back. Mr.

Graham, yes. Mr. Wallace, we received quite a large number of telegrams the day, I guess 15 or 20, complaining bitterly that you were putting the market down, rocking the boat and all that. Would you agree with that? Mr Graham, no. I think I can say something that would be reassuring to you. Senator, and I put it this way, if the study actually does put the market down, then the market was due to go down and should go down. The Chairman That is a very fair observation to me. It is a mighty weak market that this hearing could put down, is it not, Mr Graham? I would agree on that. The Chairman Now one or two things that have occurred to me. Did you notice Mr Eccles' proposal yesterday on capital gains tax?

Mr Graham read it in this morning's paper the chairman does it appeal to you at all mr graham yes i had a proposal of my own i guess all of us have proposals on this thing i think mr baruch will make one when he appears we all have proposals mr reckles's proposal basically is i think a sound one to differentiate more than the law now differentiates between the various holding periods The Chairman. Your proposal, I thought, was simply a temporary device, and then I assumed a return to what we have. Mr Graham. Yes, that would be true. The Chairman. Which is certainly worthy of consideration. The effect is that if you hold it in a really long time, beyond, say, five years, he was not dogmatic about the precise ending of it, that there would be no capital gains. Does that appeal to you? Mr Graham. On the whole it does Senator.

You may recall that a number of years ago we had capital gains tax of that type and that the amount of tax went down to about 10 I think on holding stocks between 5 and 10 years and zero I think after 10 years. So these graduations are largely a matter of judgement but I think the principle is sound. The theoretical objection to capital gains taxes is that the taxing something which does not appear everywhere in the national income or the gross national product and so on. This theoretical objection could be met in part by this gradation. The Chairman This is a rather technical question, but perhaps you can help us. While I realise it is difficult to generalise, would you give us your best estimate on how much market value of a dollar of retained earnings in comparison to a dollar of dividends is paid? How much market value in dollars? That takes a few sentences to answer.

In the first place, I've made studies on the subject and I've written on the subject, and in the past it was possible to show that a dollar of paid out earnings had four times the value of a dollar of retained earnings in their effect on the market for the average stock. The exception being stocks that were bought mainly for their long-term prospects and were treated in the market in a separate category. I have a feeling however that we are now going through a transition period on the question of weighting of dividends as against retained earnings. I think the transition is going on fairly rapidly. I cannot tell you just where we stand at this minute, but I will predict that in a few years from now, the weight of returned earnings will be better, considerably better, than it had been against the distributed earnings. For Chairman, is that not very largely influenced by the tax structure, the difference between the capital gains and the normal surtax rates? Mr Graham, well no sir, it has not been influenced in the past.

On the contrary, behaviour of investors and speculators has been very illogical. In theory, they should have preferred retained earnings by successful companies because those companies were subject to only one tax to begin with and ultimately only to a capital gains tax in addition whereas the distributed earnings were subject to two large taxes immediately however the ingrained desire of investors for dividends was so great that it has not yet adjusted itself to the facts of life in the tax structure it is only beginning now to do so the chairman i see what you mean is they will slowly catch up mr graham they have been extremely slow and i think extremely unintelligent the chairman that is a very understandable statement incidentally do you think that stock options are largely motivated by the desire to compensate directors by capital gains rather than salaries Mr Graham.

Well, sir, it is the desire to compensate officers by capital gains. There is no doubt about it at all. That is the admitted purpose of stock options. The Chairman. No, it is not admitted by some of the people that we have had arguments. understand.  they say O is just to inspire loyalty.  it has nothing to do with the retaining of earnings.  you do not subscribe to that, mr graham? no, i do not, sir.  the Chairman, I agree with your views quite often.  mr graham, senator, i have no intention of shaping my views with the expectation of your agreement.  chairman, I did not accuse you of that.  i was only impressed by your wisdom. Mr Graham, thank you senator.  the chairman, i used to be a professor, maybe that is my weakness.  you noticed this morning that Sears Roebuck has found a way to compensate the ordinary employees by capital gains which I never realised before.  it is not the effect of the pension plan.

mr Graham, it is provided you have got a Sears Roebuck type of company.  if you had an ordinary company, let me add this... And this is very important.  if you took an ordinary company at random on the new york stock exchange and tried to put in the Roebuck type of plan, not only would it be true that the returns would be comparatively small, as against Sears Roebuck, but I think it would be impossible to maintain such a plan.  types of variations in results in the stock prices from year to year, the people just would not have the guts to keep up a plan of this kind in the ordinary company.  mr Chairman. Well, a company like General Motors could do it, could it not? Mr Graham, I think so, yes. The Chairman, do you know whether other funds have this system of paying into the pension fund as much as 10 of their income before taxes, as compensation really to their employees without paying the normal tax rate? Mr Graham, well, the only difference is the 10 figure that you're mentioning.

10 is a fairly high figure, but it is by no means... unexampled i wish you could think of the other companies but there have been instances i know of more than ten per cent of the earnings going to a combination of executive and run-of-the-mill employee compensation the chairman i do not believe the compensation to the executives was included in this morning's testimony Mr Graham, the executives are part of this, but they are limited to this $500 a year figure, or whatever the maximum is. The Chairman, I meant in addition to that they have bonuses and stock options, which is in addition to the participation in the pension fund. Mr Graham, that is correct, sir. The Chairman, which may result in an overall figure beyond 10%. Mr Graham, yes. The Chairman, what do you think of that? Mr Graham, there are two parts to it.

In the first place, I think it is a remarkably good device for establishing the proper relationship between the business and its employees and a fair treatment of profits. As I said in the beginning, we have a similar approach in our government employees insurance company and it has worked out very well for us and the employees. The tax status of course is another matter. It is a very favourable tax status in these plans that the Congress adopted, and I am sure knowing full well what the consequences would be with the intention of encouraging this kind of development in corporate business and in the position of corporate employees. I think personally, even at the cost of some loss of revenue to the Treasury, it would be very desirable to encourage the development of medium-sized capitalist or in any event happy and prosperous employees at the end of their working career. The Chairman I agree with you as far as you go. It is a fine thing if you look at only that.

What do you say about these people who have no way of adjusting their income to capital gains and have to pay the straight tax? What is your answer to them? Do you say, well, it is too bad? Or how do you justify one set of employees receiving compensation and paying only capital gains rates and another set? doing almost the same thing, playing another rate. If you were in my place and they blamed you for all the governmental policies, what would you say to them? Mr Graham, I would say what we are talking about is a marginal part of the total compensation of employees. In the Sears Roebuck case, of course it is not so marginal because you have had this extraordinary success of the corporation itself.

But if you take a typical corporation which sets aside 10 of its earnings for this purpose, The amount of additional gains and income to the employees would represent not an inconsiderable part of their earnings, but at least a minor part of their earnings, and the tax advantage, I should think, should be accepted philosophically because of the desirable consequences that flow from it. The chairman, supposing they devoted 50%, supposing they reduced everybody's wages and transferred that to 50 payment into the fund. If you can accept the principle, why could you not pay them all on a capital gains basis. Mr Graham, no, the principle cannot be accepted to an unlimited application and the present act, if I understand it correctly, imposes a limitation on that. The amounts which can be put to benefit of employees in pension funds and profit-sharing funds, I believe, are limited to 15 of the compensation in each year. The Chairman, I wonder if you would give us your views in a broad sense about the economic future of the next few years.

Do you see any culmination of a business cycle, or do you subscribe to this view that I read the other day of one of your colleagues in the investment field in New York, but a final blowout is necessary. I read into the record an opinion that it always must come that we must have this final orgy of buying. I wonder if you would give us an idea of your views for the next few years. How has your mind been working? Mr Graham, I will do it with the provided over that these views should not be taken too seriously. The Chairman I do not believe you are infallible. Mr Graham As a matter of fact I have never specialised in economic forecasting or market forecasting either.

My own business has been largely based on the principle that if you can make your results independent of any views as to the future you are much better off nevertheless as an economist of sort i have studied this question and i will be glad to give you my view on this matter i think that in all probability we would have some economic recession of an appreciable amount not necessarily a very serious amount in the natural course of events which means such things as the inventory situation, the consumer credit situation, the housing situation, capital goods situation, all of which tend on the whole to operate in cycles, and which on the whole could not be continued, in my opinion, indefinitely at the rate which we see them developing right now. And of course, I am now expressing merely the views of an experienced conservative economist who expects history to repeat itself, or the pattern of history to repeat itself. You have an unknown factor which is government intervention.

The government, it seems to me, is committed now through both parties to intervene, perhaps nationally, to prevent any serious decline in the business activity which is accompanied by substantial unemployment. I might say that you could have substantial unemployment with an increase in the gross national product, and with apparent prosperity, merely because of the development of productivity. And we are approaching an interesting period in which I believe the intentions of the government vis-a-vis employment will be tested out. Last year we expected it would be tested out, but it was not. We were all very pleasantly surprised. I think in the next five years such a test will take place and I think you will see in all probability the government taking action of an important kind to prevent large-scale unemployment. The Chairman.

you think the government should add an element of stability to the normal fluctuating economy mr graham the government will try the chairman it will depend upon the wisdom of the government's policy mr graham yes i guess if you judge the wisdom in terms of results the chairman how do you judge wisdom Mr Graham, I have a priori test of wisdom in most cases.  i think in economics it is very difficult to tell what is wise until you have been through it.  the Chairman, I suppose I should not ask you to look back and see what happened in the 20s to see who was wise in administration of government, should i? mr graham, i think not.

the chairman what is your commodity reserve plan i understand you have one mr graham i can put it in very few words it is related to your question as to the future of our economic system In the last 20 years I have been identified with a concept of stabilizing the economy by stabling the price level of raw materials taken as a whole and not in individual commodities. The objective has been to permit individual commodities to fluctuate but to establish a narrow range of fluctuation and virtual stability for the value of a market based on the important commodities. I have added to it the very important factor, quite radical, that those commodities would represent a sound backing for our money because they represent the things that we need and use and so by doing this they would become commodity reserves and would be self-financing in the same way our gold reserves are self-financing.

The consequence would be that by stabilising pretty well the general level of raw material prices you would add a very important degree of stability to the general economy the chairman i do not think i quite understand what the limitation of the commodities involved would be mr graham these are major storable commodities for the most part those dealt with in our commodity exchanges but not absolutely the chairman what agricultural commodities if any would it include mr graham it would include such products as wheat corn cotton sugar and rubber The Chairman. Rubber and cotton would be storable indefinitely. Mr Graham. They would be storable indefinitely through rotation. The Chairman. With regard to government policy and interference, do you regard tax policy as of major importance in this element of interference in the economic system? Mr Graham. It could be.

That is to say, that one of the means by which government could intervene to an important degree green economy would be through a tax reduction plan. Another method would be through an increase of its expenditures. The chairman. When you find a special situation and you decide just for illustration that you can buy for and it's worth and you take a position, and then you cannot realise it until a lot of other people decide it's worth 30. How is the process brought about? By advertising, or what happens? Mr Graham, that is one of the mysteries of our business, and it is a mystery to me as well as everybody else. We know from experience that eventually the market catches up with the value. It realises it in one way or the other. The chairman, but do you do anything to help that? Do you advertise or what do you do? Mr Graham, on the contrary, we try as a matter of fact to keep our operations as constant. Mr Graham, even after we have acquired our shares.

Mr Graham, basically for the reason that we just are not interested in other people's shares. Mr Graham We have been very fortunate in our experience by finding that other people will decide that the stock you mention is worth 30 without the necessity of our doing anything about it on the advertising side. We might conceivably at times intervene in a managerial policy, we might suggest some change in the procedure, but that of course is merely because we are substantial stockholders. the chairman. I think this is about all. There are many other things which I could ask you, I'm sure. However, you have other things to do and the hour is late.

I would like to express the appreciation of the committee for you having taken your time to come down here and volunteer this information. I'm sure it is not very pleasant for you to have to talk about these things but I know no other way we can learn about them. Mr Graham, if I have made a contribution I do not mind the discomfort. The Chairman, if you have any further suggestions that occur to you which we ought to know about we will welcome you writing them to us. Thank you very much for coming. The statement of Benjamin Graham, chairman of the Graham Newman... Mr.  graham's full prepared statement is as follows.  statement of Benjamin Graham, Chairman of graham newman corporation.  my name is Benjamin Graham.  i live in scarsdale, new york.

i am Chairman of the Graham Newman Corporation, a registered investment company or investment fund.  i am also a adjunct professor of finance at the the Graduate School of business, columbia university.  this statement will address itself mainly to three points.  one, the present level of stock prices from the standpoint of relationship between price and value.  two, causes of the rise in the stock market since September 1958.  two, causes of the rise in the stock market since September 1953. 3. Feasible methods of controlling excessive speculation in the future. With regard to the present level of stock prices, I fight...

Gap, new paragraph. With regard to the present level of stock prices, common stocks look high and are high, but they are not as high as they look. The market level of industrial stock is far above the 1929 high shown by the Standard Poor's Index of 420 industrials. The present figure is above 300, as compared with 1929, high of 195. the dow jones industrial average at about 410 is now only moderately above 1929, high of 382, but the difference would be much larger except for the substitutions made in average.  however, the railroad and utility companies as a whole are well below the 1929 highs.

the true measure of common stock values, of course, is not found by reference to the price movements alone, but the price relation to earnings, dividends, future prospects, and to a small extent, asset values.

The expressed goal of the president of the new york stock exchange is to have every American own a share of American industry.  one brokerage firm is using three stockmobiles to deploy its itinerant customers' men to open up new territory.  this stockmobile covers worcester, springfield, wellesley, framingham, and Lynn, Massachusetts.  it is never farther away from the New York market than a telephone pole.

I was thinking of United Shoe mostly. I haven't had a chance to look at it yet, though.

Well, that's one we don't carry on our board here, and I'd have to check... I see. ...in our paper for the price on that.

Bob, how will this recent rise in the margin requirements affect my account now?

The 50 margin requirements on purchases made before the directive will not be affected, but any purchases made after the directive came out will require 60 margin.

Anytime you're in any of those cities, be sure to stop in.

Fine.

Say hello. See what the market's doing.

That's very interesting. I'll look for you in Lynn, though, next Friday.

All right.

Not at all, sir. Glad to have met you and stop in any time.

Well it seems to be a lot of games deals are up the world's iraq the chemicals are up everything to be a proper order today well if anything unusual happened when i said that my mom and i do thank you very much for coming down but why don't you take this gross stock performance somewhere in the kitchen look at all the things a lot of good ideas.

Aluminum Company of America, in cooperation with CBS Television, presents the distinguished reporter and news analyst, Edward R.  murrow, in see it now.  edited and produced by Mr.  murrow and fred w.  friendly.  a weekly presentation of Aluminum Company of America, the nation's leading producer of aluminum. Now speaking to you from the control room of Studio 41 is the editor of see it now, edward r.  murrow.

Those stock mobiles on the street bring the stock market full cycle because it was on the street in 1792 under a buttonwood tree that the stock market, the stock exchange began with 24 brokers trading. Since then, much has happened to the market. Much money has been made and much has been lost. Last week the Federal Reserve raised the margin requirement 10 from 50 to 60 That is the money you have to pay down in cash tonight Attempting a brief report on the bull market We revert to a report that we made some 14 months ago When we attempted to take the television audience down to the floor of the new york stock exchange this is the new york stock market.  it has been called the greatest auction ring on the face of the globe of $57 million changes hands here every day, a fifth of a million dollars every minute. When more people want to buy a stock than sell it, the price goes up.

When there are more sellers than buyers, the price comes down. On our See It Now report of 14 months ago, we followed the purchase of 100 shares of General Motors to see how this purchase helped the price to go up one eighth of a point. We started at post four, but this actual purchase was started at a broker's office in Des Moines, Iowa, where a farmer named Bill Gannon decided to buy General Motors.

I believe I can handle a hundred shares, John. You go ahead and...

All right, I'll buy that at the market.

All right.

The broker's office on west locust street, des moines, now asks its office in New York for 100 shares of General Motors.

Thank you.

Enter Nutterfeld.

The query goes down to the forward trading point at post four on the floor.

All right, 100, General Motors at the mark.

- How is General Motors? - 58. - And you go to 9. - 58 and 7.

Seven eights for a hundred.

General Motors, 58 and 7/8.

Board 100 General Motors of 58 and 7/8.

- 400-100 General Motors, 58 and 78. Mark the report.

Thank you.

That's right. There's quite a few getting in there.

Mr. Gannon, looks like you bought 100 General Motors at 58 and 7/8.

Bill Gannon invested some $5,800 in this stock on October 27, 1953. Since then, a total of 674 million shares of stock has changed hands here. And no one knows how many tons of ticker tape and trash have been swept away. For the last year, general business conditions in the nation have just about held their own. General Motors has had a big year. Its production and sales stayed close to the 53 level. Yesterday, we went back to post-4 to see how Farmer Gallon's 100 shares had done in those 14 months. General Motors, as of yesterday, 98 and 1/8. That's a net rise for the 14-month period of 40 and 1/4. If customer Gannon held his 100 shares, he will have made a profit of $4,000 on a $5,800 investment.

At the time of our report of 14 months ago, Scott and Rossi narrowed their focus to five other stocks in the quotation room. B.P. three quarters to four and one eighth. BP, Union bag and paper was 44 and one eighth, now 70 and three eighths.

S-Y-E.

To one quarter.  s-y-e, skelly oil, was 34, now 51 and three quarters.

Hlt 17 and 3/4 to 18.

Hlt, Hilton Hotel, was 18, now 37.

Mgr 62 to 3/4.

Mgr, McGraw Electric, was 62, now 112. In all, the Dow Jones average of 30 industrial stocks is up $125.72 or up 46 over 14 months ago. The market closed at 330 this afternoon. Trading will begin again at 10 o'clock tomorrow morning. The losses of last week have pretty well been restored, and the bull market continues. Immediately following this message from Alcoa, we'll take you to a seminar on the stock exchange at Columbia University, and then to the office of a United States senator whose committee is going to investigate the exchange. Time now for Alcoa.

A dream bus of the future? No. This striking 43-passenger Greyhound Scenicruiser is already on the highway. Soon 500 of them will be in service throughout the United States. With dramatic innovations for comfort, safety, and sightseeing enjoyment, the Greyhound Scenicruiser brings the American people a new concept of luxury and highway travel. To achieve this miracle on wheels, more than 5,500 pounds of aluminum was used. On the exterior of the bus, Alcor aluminum is used from the massive front bumper, cowl, and windshield frame to the rear bumper and tail lights. The Sena Cruiser is built by general motors, gmc truck and Coach Division, which uses many forms of aluminum, sheet, castings, and extrusions.

even for these luggage locks, window frames, and interior trim, Greyhound is used Alcoa aluminum in its regular buses for over 20 years in order to have strength without added weight. To speed development and production of this luxury loaded scenic cruiser, Greyhound again turned to Alcoa. For bus owners, the use of light but strong Alcoa aluminum means greater operating efficiency, less maintenance, increased fuel economy, and a greater load carrying capacity. For bus passengers, Alcoa aluminum helps to open a new era in low-cost luxury travel. Now everyone can ride in complete comfort, travel in home-like luxury, see America through giant picture windows.

The Greyhound Scenicruiser is one more example of how Alcor meets the demands of modern industry and contributes to modern living. Aluminum by Alcor. Aluminum Company of America.

There is no shortage of experts on the market. As for us, we're barely able to tell the difference between a bull and a bear. So, we sat in on part of a seminar at the Graduate School of Business at Columbia University. After all, it's older than the stock exchange. And we thought professors familiar with the language of the street might treat the market with detachment. Dean Courtney Brown and Professor Benjamin Graham were instructing future brokers and customers' men. Here is See It Now's short course in the market.

First, let me give a caution. I hardly need give it to a group of informed students such as you. No one knows precisely why the market behaves as it behaves, either in retrospect or in prospect. The best we can do, as you all know, is express informed judgments. But it is important that those judgments be informed. We do know that there has been a substantial rise. That rise has been going on for a number of years, particularly since the middle of 1953. And we do know that the rate of that rise has been very rapid, uncomfortably, like that of the 1928-29 period. It has resulted in a lot of comparisons being made in the press.

Moreover, the present level of stock prices, as measured by the Dow Jones averages, is about equal to, indeed a little above, the peaks of 1929. A number of explanations have been been advanced regarding the stock market rise that suggest it may reflect a return to inflationary conditions. This doesn't seem to me to be very convincing. First, because there is no evidence of inflation in the behavior of commodity prices, either at the wholesale or at the retail level. And there hasn't been over the past year and a half. extraordinary stability in the behavior of both indexes. There is so much surplus capacity around in almost every direction that it's hard to conceive of a strong inflationary trend reasserting itself at this time.

Still another explanation is that the stock market has gone up because there has been a return that kind of speculative fever that has from time to time in the past gripped the country. The Florida land boom, the 1929 stock boom, they've occurred in history as you know all the way back from the tulip speculations in Harlem. I suspect there's a certain element of truth in this one. However, it doesn't seem to me that gives us too much concern because there has been no feeding of this fever by the injection of credit. I think it is important for us to observe that the amount of loans Brokers loans, loans made to brokers for the financing of securities of their customers that have been bought on margin are less than $2 billion at present. In 1929, they were in excess of $8.5 billion.

And there is now a larger volume of securities on the stock exchange. Now gentlemen, Professor Gray, I will pick up the story at that point.

One of the comparisons that's interesting is one not between 1929, which is so long ago, but 1950, which is only a few years ago. It would be very proper to ask why are prices twice as much as they are now when the earnings of companies both in '54 and probably in 1955 are less than they were in 1950? Now that is an extraordinary difference. And the explanation cannot be found in any mathematics, but it has to be found in investor psychology. You can have an extraordinary difference in the price level merely because not only speculators, but investors themselves are looking at the situation through rose-colored glasses rather than dark blue glasses. It may well be true that the underlying psychology of the American people has not changed so much, and that what the American people have been waiting for for many years has been an excuse for going back to the speculative attitudes which used to characterize them from time to time.

Now, if that is so, then the present situation can carry a very large degree of danger to people who are now becoming interested in common stocks for the first time. It would seem, if history counts for anything, that the stock market is much more likely than not to advance to a point where a real danger.

You've said that stock prices now are not.

Too high.

But that you fear they will go higher, well then are you recommending the decline?

- May I defend you on that?

It is.

Those who have watched the security markets behavior over the years have become more and more impressed with the fact that stocks always go too high on the upside and tend to go too low on the downside. The swings, in other words, are always more dramatic and more, the amplitude of change is greater than might normally be justified by an analytical appraisal of the values that are represented there. I think what Professor Graham had to say was that his analysis of a series of underlying values would indicate that the stock prices are just about in line with where they might properly be.

However,

From experience that would be the most the least likely thing to happen that stops to just stabilize right here. Now if it's the least likely thing to happen and you have to select a probability between going up further or down further because of the strong momentum that they have had I think I would be inclined to agree with him that the more probable direction would be toward somewhat higher levels. Yes sir.

Formerly when stockholders believed the market was too high, they switched from stocks to cash. Now many people feel that due to capital gains tax, they are not free to act. They are, what you might say, locked in. What effect does this have on the stock market in general?

Yes, there's no question about the fact that it does discourage some sales that might otherwise be made because one selling stocks and trying to replace them would have to replace them at substantially lower prices to come out even after paying the capital gains tax. However, that's not the only reason. People are reluctant to sell stocks and buy bonds. Stocks are still yielding about 4.5 on the basis of current dividend payments, whereas bonds of prime quality are closer to 3%. Here again, we find a contrast with the situation in 1929, when stocks were yielding about 3.5 and prime bonds closer to 5%.

In addition to raising margin requirements, should the federal government take other measures to check a speculative boom in the stock market, and which method is the better?

My own opinion would be that the Federal Reserve should first exhaust the possibilities of raising the margin requirements to 100 percent and then consider very seriously before they imposed other sanctions.

It made it.

If need be.

What is the significance of the broadening public participation in stock purchasing and ownership?

There are probably two elements there that are important. One, the broadening participation of the public in stock purchases is one measure of the degree of speculative fever that we were talking about before.

However,

Subject to that being controlled, and I believe that it can be controlled, as as Professor Graham has indicated. But over and above that, there is a broad social significance to that, it seems to me. What it in essential terms means is that the ownership of American industry is being more widely dispersed among more and more people. This has very favorable repercussions in terms of our political and social lives.

This question concerns the so-called Wall Street professional. Are Wall Street professionals usually more accurate in their near long-term market trends, forecasts of stock market trends? If not, why not? I said you say that they are more often wrong than right on their forecasts? What I mean is, are they more accurate in the shorter term than the long-term forecasts? Well, we've been following that interesting question for a generation or more. And I must say frankly that our studies indicate that you have your choice between tossing coins and taking the consensus of expert opinion. And the results are just about the same in each case. Your question as to why they are not more dependable is a very good one and an interesting one.

And my own explanation for that is this, that everybody in Wall Street is so smart, see, that their brilliance offsets each other. And that whatever they know is already reflected in the level of stock prices, pretty much. And consequently, what happens in the future represents what they don't know. Yes, sir.

Would you kindly comment on an item appearing in the newspapers to the effect that while 45 of buying today is on margin, only the money borrowed is equal to only 1 of the value of listed stock?

The amount of trading on the stock exchange is a very small part of the total value of all the securities that are listed thereon. And when you say that the total amount of borrowing on margins financed by brokerage loans is only 1 of the value, it still is a reconcilable figure. You can't reconcile it unless you have the detailed data with you, but it isn't incompatible in any way.

I might add a point on that, Dean Brown, and that is that the slow increase in brokers' loans as compared with 45 marginal trade would indicate that a good deal of the marginal trading is between people who are taking in each other's washing. That is, the marginal buyers are buying from sellers who were previously on margin. And that's why the rate of growth of the broker's loans is so much smaller now than it had been in the 1920s, when I think a good deal of the selling had come from from long-term owners and really smart people who are selling out to the suckers. I want to raise a point of argument here on this question of inflation. It seems to me that you're correct in stating that there's been no inflation in '54, but there also appears to be several long-term inflationary points in the economy today.

These, I think, are the deficit spending that's supposed to be continued by the government, the easy money policy, which is expected to continue, the question of increased union wages, the talk about increased minimum wage, and the talk about a guaranteed wage. All these, and on top of this, the rogue program of $101 billion, which the government has just announced, these seem to me to be long-term inflationary things in the US economy. And I wish you'd talk about these.

That's a question that has a good many angles on it. Perhaps we both better try it. Professor Graham, why don't you take the first crash?

Well, I think there are two answers to that in my mind. The first is that acknowledging that there are inflationary elements in governmental policy as it's now being carried out, it may be argued that those are just necessary to keep things on an even keel, because without them, we might have some inbuilt deflationary factors in the way business operates through increased productivity, capacity, and so forth.

I've been impressed with the possibility of labor costs as an inflationary factor. But a rise in wages does not necessarily mean a rise in labor costs. depends upon the relationship of the rate of change in wages and the rate of change in output per man hour or productivity. Now, if wages are related to productivity, as you know they were in the General Motors contract, there is no necessary inflationary consequence to be anticipated. However, apart from that, it's entirely possible that if wages.

Just go.

A head faster than changes in productivity that could be a seriously inflationary factor.

On the basis of your recent answer with regard to the psychological impact of the present condition of the market on the small investor, do you discount the entire theory of dollar averaging?

I think there's no doubt that it's accepting your premise that man will put the same amount of money in the market year after year for the next 20 years, let's say, that he has a very good, great chance of coming out ahead regardless of when he begins and particularly regardless if he should begin now. you have to allow for the human nature factor that no man is can really say definitely just how he's going to behave over the next 10 to 20 years and there is danger that people start with the idea of being Systematic investors over the next 10 to 20 years may change their attitude as the market fluctuates. In the first instance, put more money into the market because they become speculators and secondly get disgusted and scared and don't buy at all later on when prices get low. It's a psychological danger that falls not in the stars or in the system but in ourselves, I think.

That was a glimpse of a seminar examining the stock market at Columbia University.  we move now to Washington, where democratic senator william j.  fulbright.

Right.

Has announced that his Banking and Currency Committee will conduct an investigation of the market. Senator Fulbright, why is your committee going to investigate the stock market?

Well, Mr. Merrill, there are two principal reasons. One is that my committee has jurisdiction over the subject matter through its control and responsibility for the SEC. The second reason is that the unusual increase during the last 12 to 18 months in the level of prices would seem to warrant a study at this time.

Well, are you worried about another 1929?

Of course, there's certainly a possibility of it. This situation is reminiscent of 1929. We know the Great Depression in the early '30s was heralded by the tremendous increase, the great rise in the stock market, and then the great drop. And that's unsettling to the whole economy, and it frightens people. It causes great harm to people on fixed incomes and so on. And another thing about it is that The greatest criticism of our system and our economy by our enemies, especially the communists, is the instability of our economy and the wire fluctuations. And we should endeavor to minimize those fluctuations. Now, I don't know all the reasons involved in this. That's why we're going to have the study. But the objective is to inform the Congress and inform the people as far as we can about the conditions that now exist.

And we would then hope to be able to develop some remedy for it, some way to control these wild fluctuations. I confess with what limited knowledge I have, it does disturb me because it has gone up for such a long time and to such a great extent. I think far beyond what the conditions in the country itself warrant. I happen to know of my own knowledge that in the agricultural areas in the Southwest, we are having a very severe depressed period. There is no boom in the agricultural areas, the rural areas of the West and the Southwest, so that most of this boom is concentrated in the market. And I think it is unhealthy, but I'm unwilling to take a dogmatic stand now. That's why, as I say, we'll have the study.

Well, senator fulbright, i think you have referred to this as a friendly investigation.  what exactly is a friendly investigation?

Well, what I meant to convey is that I have no knowledge nor even suspicion of wrongdoing, manipulation, or anything of that kind in this increase. And I approach it in a friendly spirit, in the spirit of trying to find out for the information of the country and of our committee and the Congress what has been taking place. And I'm not approaching it with the idea that we're going to reveal a lot of wrongdoing.

The stock exchange hasn't been investigated for 20 years, but it remains the subject of curiosity and concern as to whether what is good for the exchange is good for the country and the people who live here. There have been no official charges that it has been rigged or manipulated, but rather the question of whether or not the market is healthy. There is wide disagreement amongst the experts as to why the market behaves as it does, but there is considerable agreement that it behaves the way it does because people behave the way they do. Good night and good luck.

For the gift to be remembered, for lasting beauty and heirloom quality, give Hall Light cooking utensils, created by wherever. The gleaming copper-colored covers always stay bright and shining. They never tarnish. They never need polishing. Hall light utensils are made of an extra hard thick alloy that keeps its sparkling beauty. Each hall light pan and each copper colored cover has its own transparent leaf hanger. So they can be hung like pictures to create different and attractive wall arrangements. With friendly-to-food Hall Light utensils, the cooking heat spreads quickly and evenly. Not only over the entire bottom of the utensil, but up the sides, too. For that gift of a lifetime, give the most beautiful and the most useful cooking utensils in America today. Hall Light utensils, designed by wherever.

Aluminum, from the ever-expanding facilities of America's foremost producer, Alcor, Aluminum Company of america.  see it now, like the i can hear it now record albums, is edited and produced by Mr.  murrow and Fred W.  friendly.