
I was very sad to see that because those guys are, yeah. Those guys are heroes of mine, so it's really tough.

Never.

I don't ever give up.

Absolutely. Thank you for having me. I was on a red-eye flight, so I'm a little slower than normal. I didn't get much sleep.

Yeah. No spring-- I think I'm safely not a spring chicken anymore. Late summer chicken?

Yes, but you, I mean, you look great.

Well, I think what I'm working on has an important effect on the future. In the case of Tesla, I think it's fair to say that Tesla has significantly accelerated the advent of sustainable energy. You know, before Tesla, no one was doing electric cars, and now, as a result of Tesla, I think almost every major car company in the world is building electric cars. And that's a pretty big deal. But there's still a long way to go to transition the world to a sustainable energy economy. And so, So we still have a lot of work ahead of us at Tesla, but that's our goal there. And then for SpaceX, I think it's important for the future to be exciting and for humanity's existence to be ensured over the long term.

I think we must become a multi-planet species and a space-bearing civilization. You know, I think the... We're here like four and a half billion years after Earth got started, 13.8 billion years into the age of the universe, and it's only now, recently, in the last 5,000 years that we even invented writing. I would say date the first civilization by when there was the first writing, which was in ancient Sumeria around five or six thousand years ago. So we've basically just been here for a very brief instant. All of human civilization is a blink of an eye, if there was an eye, on an evolutionary time scale.

So I think it's important we take the actions to ensure that the light of consciousness continues, because we should really view consciousness as a small candle in a vast darkness, and it can easily go out.

Well, we've not formally announced our next car program. So I can't talk too much about our upcoming vehicle program or programs that have not been announced. But we do expect to make cars that are more affordable than the current Model 3 or Model Y. And a big factor in this is-- yeah. I think by far the biggest factor is autonomy in terms of the value of a car. Because right now, cars get driven for about 10 or 12 hours a week, like maybe one and a half hours a day.

And So, but there's 168 hours in a week, and so if they were autonomous, you could probably drive, the cars could drive for 50 or 60 hours, so you would see a five-fold increase in the utility of the car, you know, that could do autonomy. This is a really, really gigantic thing. It would also mean that there was, we wouldn't need anywhere near as many parking lots, and this would also be helpful for the environment because you would need far fewer cars.

I mean, I think the full explanation, or at least an accurate explanation, would take a long time. Because, to first approximation, a car is made of 10,000 unique parts and process steps. And, I mean, Tesla's really, I think at this point, probably the best at manufacturing in the auto industry, which I think nobody was expecting.

Probably. Yeah, so... Well, I've got this first principles algorithm that I find to be very helpful in the design and manufacturing of anything. And people here may find it helpful. The first thing you should do is make the requirements that you've been given less dumb. Whatever constraints and requirements were given, they were to some degree dumb, and you want to make them less dumb. If you don't start with this, then you get the right answer to the wrong question. And the requirements must be given from a person who can explain the requirement, not from a department, because then you don't know who to talk to.

Then step two is delete the part or delete the process step. This sounds extremely obvious, and yet over and over again we have found that parts were not needed. They were just put in there just in case, or by mistake, or there was a step that someone thought was needed but was not actually needed. This sounds insanely obvious, but we've deleted so many parts from the car that did nothing. They were just there? - Well, yeah, I mean, I can give you so many examples. One example was there were three fiberglass mats on top of the battery pack. They partially covered the battery pack.

And I was on the battery pack production line, and it was the number one thing choking battery pack production, were gluing on these three fiberglass mats to the top of the battery pack. And so the reason I repeat this algorithm myself is that I first did things backwards. First, I tried to automate it. Then I try to accelerate it, just have this go faster. Then I try to simplify it, and only then did I delete it. Because it turned out that the team at Tesla that does noise and vibration minimization, so making the car quiet, thought that the fiberglass mats were there because of the battery safety team for battery fire prevention.

And then I asked the battery fire prevention team what were they needed for, and they said, oh, noise and vibration. I'm like, okay. So then we had two cars drive, one with a microphone, in the car, in each car, and you could not tell the difference. So we went to all that trouble for a part that should not exist. And then another example was there was a, again, this was like, these were choke points in the entire production system. That's why they, you know, I'm running around the production line trying to fix the production line, just like a maniac, sort of Tasmanian devil, just running around the factory like a lunatic.

And let's see, we have the body production line of Model 3 was at one point stuck because we had a laser welding cell to weld a small cross-car beam in the passenger footwell of the I'm looking at this beam and I'm like, what the heck does that do? Because the entire factory stopped trying to get the laser weld cell to work. And I'm like, I can't imagine what useful thing it could do. And the production team said, oh, that's for crash safety. So then I called the production team and they said, called the crash safety team and said, is this for crash safety? They said, oh no, that didn't do anything. We should delete it. It turned out to be totally useless. They forgot to tell the production team. Honestly, a bunch of these things just feel like you're living in a Dilbert cartoon.

I'm like, oh no, what's our, I mean, any given company, they should have like, what's your Dilbert ratio? Okay. It's not zero.

- One more question, try to keep it low.

- So that's literally me. - This is not someone else who did this. I was living in the factory in Fremont and the one in Nevada for three years straight. That was my primary residence. Not kidding, literally.

I actually slept on a couch at one point in a tent on the roof. And then for a while there I was just sleeping under my desk, which is out in the open in the factory, for an important reason. And it was damn uncomfortable sleeping on that floor. And always when I woke up I'd smell like metal dust.

Yeah, but actually I stopped using the couch in the... because there's a little conference room and a couch there. I stopped using the couch and I just slept on the floor under my desk so during shift change the entire team could see me. And that's important because, like, you know, the team, like... If they think their leader is off somewhere having a good time, drinking Mai Tais on a tropical island, which I could definitely have been doing and would much have preferred to do. I'm not actually a masochist, I think. But the thing is that since the team could see me sleeping on the floor during shift change with nothing, They knew I was there and that made a huge difference and then they gave it their all.

We do have that problem a little bit. So, you know, as a company has prosperity and then people become wealthy, then for a lot of people, Once they become independently wealthy, they just can't bring themselves to work or they don't want to work. And that's totally understandable, no judgement. I have a lot of friends who are extremely talented and they had some success earlier in life and they just decided that was enough trauma. I mean, you know, one of my good friends of mine saying, like, for starting a company is like eating glass and staring into the abyss. So, when people tell me, like, what can you do to encourage entrepreneurs to start companies?

I'm like, if you need encouragement, don't start a company. Okay.

Well, my memory for technical matters is very good. But I think probably a lot of people don't realize what I do 80 of the time is engineering. So it's actually quite rare for me to give a talk. And my day-to-day work at SpaceX and Tesla is almost entirely engineering and design. And also production. Production is key, although I consider that to be part of engineering. Yeah, so, um, but Starship is something special.

Um, the thing that is like the holy grail, like the critical breakthrough needed to make life multi-planetary and for humanity to be a space-bearing civilization is a fully and rapidly reusable rocket, orbital rocket. And so we've gone most of the way there with Falcon 9. You may have seen the rocket booster come back and land. And we also recover the nose cone or fairing. But we do not recover the upper stage. So we've gone to the point where we're about 70 to 80 reusable with Falcon 9. With Starship, we're going for 100 reusable.

I cannot say how profound a change this will be, but a fully and rapidly reusable orbital rocket has the potential to drop the cost of access to space by a factor of a thousand.

And I should say also Starship is, it's a very big rocket. It's more than twice the thrust of a Saturn V. and about twice the mass. And it's also, the entire ship is designed to land propulsively. So it can land-- To do what I didn't hear? To land on its engines, to land propulsively. So it can land on any solid surface in the solar system. So if we can make Starship work, then it enables us to, over time, get anywhere in the solar system.

Why is that?

Well, so, let's see. Earth's gravity is actually quite strong and we have a thick atmosphere. So with known physics, it is only barely possible to make a fully reusable orbital rocket. Only barely possible. This was a video game, the setting is extreme difficulty. Not impossible, but extreme difficulty. Because it's not like those who have developed rockets before weren't aware of reusability. They were fully aware of reusability.

Fully aware of reusability, that aircraft and cars are reusable. It's just that in order for a rocket to be reusable, everything has to be perfect. So you have to have exceptionally efficient engines, you have to have an exceptionally efficient structure, you need advanced avionics and software, you need a very lightweight heat shield for orbital reentry. And then another key factor for traveling to Mars is you need orbital refilling so that you get the ship to orbit and then you send up tankers to refill the ship in orbit just like it's done by the Air Force with aerial refueling. Those are the things that are necessary and it's never been achieved before.

There have been many attempts to achieve it and they've all been, basically, they've all failed and usually they'd cancel the program part way through once they thought it was no longer possible. So it's a very difficult engineering challenge.

Well, I think I have to be careful of what I say here. I have enough enemies. I would like to have a smaller number of companies that want me to die. That would be great. A big part of this is what's the goal? In the case of Starship, the goal is...

to lower the cost of access to orbit and ultimately to Mars and the Moon and elsewhere to the point where humanity can actually afford to become a multi-planet species to the point where we can afford to have a permanent base on the Moon and ultimately far exceed the high water mark of Apollo, which was incredible and I think inspiring to All of humanity. Everyone. If you were to ask people, I think almost in any country, not Americans, anyone, what was humanity's greatest achievement in the 20th century? Maybe ever. Go to the moon. And that's why they say moonshot as a metaphor. Because that was incredible. You know, so amazing that that was achieved. In fact, a lot of people ask me, was it real? I'm like, yeah, it was real.

Yeah. I mean, that was just an incredible achievement. And I think it's just one of those things that, you know, going to the moon makes you proud to be a member of humanity. You know, it's like for all mankind, you know, that's, it was for all mankind.

Maybe.

Yeah, I think... Yeah. I think, like, there's two main motivations, I think, for becoming a multi-planet species and a space-faring civilization and then ultimately going beyond that to go to other star systems and explore the galaxy. And I think we may find that there's many one-planet civilizations that died out millions of years ago and never made it to the second planet.

But I-- well, it depends how long I live.

If I keep increasing that enemies list, it might not be much longer. It would be deeply ironic if it's someone angry on Twitter that takes me out.

Yeah, exactly. So, anyway, I think there's two reasons for life to become multi-planetary, life as we know it to become multi-planetary. I think one is the defensive reason where we just, I think we want the light of consciousness to not be extinguished if something would happen to Earth. And, you know, in the case of the dinosaurs, they only had to worry about, like, you know, meteors and super volcanoes and other things. but for us humans we actually have the power to destroy ourselves with nuclear weapons or some sort of crazy bio-terrorism thing. So, So there's some danger that is not zero that could cause the end of life on Earth as we know it. So that's kind of the defense of reason to ensure that life is not just, and consciousness is not only on Earth.

That's the defense of reason to protect the future of consciousness. Then the other big reason, I think, is that it's exciting and it's adventurous and it's inspiring and makes you, like, It makes you think positively about the future, you know, and life can't just be about solving one problem or another. There need to be reasons to be inspired. You know, reasons that move your heart and say, yes, the future's going to be great when you wake up in the morning. I can't wait to see what happens next. And I think that's, you know, Humanity, going to Mars, even if you don't yourself want to go to Mars, and most people don't, just watch it. It's a tough gig, frankly. This would not be a luxury expedition.

But you'd be able to watch it happen, and I think it would just be incredibly inspiring to the world in the same way that the Apollo program was inspiring to the world. And like I said, life can't just be about solving one problem or another. We need things that make us excited and inspired about the future, and that would be one of them.

I try to get out of the deal.

Give me back. - A reminder of that scene from The Godfather, basically.

I try to get it.

What could possibly go wrong?

Yes, I mean I think it's most people would say like given how the market has evolved this year, the price is on the high side.

But in terms of what it, I think there is a tremendous amount of potential that it will be very difficult to achieve, but I think possible. And I think ultimately it could be one of the most valuable companies in the world.

I think you were skeptical. At our first meeting, you were a bit skeptical.

Yes, absolutely. Um, totally agree. Um, the, I want to be clear, the, uh, yeah, content moderation policies have not changed, uh, at, at Twitter and, and it, it is, um, not, not okay to engage in hateful conduct, uh, on, on Twitter. So, um, we have had, like, actually oddly, like, targeted attacks where temporarily people have been able to put some hate speech on Twitter, but, um, but then it's been taken down immediately. Um, so, now... Part of what I'm trying to achieve with this sort of enabling everyone to be payment verified with Twitter Blue is to try to get as many people payment verified as possible.

It's only $8 a month, although for some people that are complaining about that, these are people who pay more than that for their lattes.

Thank you. Thank you. But part of its revenue, part of it is payment authentication. And so if somebody-- because there is a huge problem with spam and bots and trolls on Twitter and organizations trying to manipulate a public opinion and just generally making the system worse. But I think that there is an answer to that, which is to get as many regular users of Twitter to be a subscriber for $8 a month. And you'll get a lot more than just a blue check mark for $8 a month, because now we can afford long-form video, long-audio podcasts, and we can also start sharing revenue with content creators, which is essential.

Yeah, absolutely. Just so I mean, right now, if you're on Twitter, you'll see a lot of links posted to YouTube and TikTok. And that's because at least until now, Twitter has not even given them enough video length to post their video. And then they give the content creators no means of monetizing the video. So we're going to change that rapidly at Twitter. It's going to be transformative. But if we can get enough verified users, and we're going to prioritize Twitter search, replies, mentions by verified users first. And yeah, this is verified.

Yes, so if your payment verified with Blue Checkmark, then you're prioritized. And so the point of this is to make crime not pay, because-- Because right now to create a bot on Twitter costs less than a penny. So the cost of crime is so cheap and that's part of why crime and hateful conduct pays. But if somebody risks losing even eight bucks, it's too expensive to now have a hundred thousand fake accounts. Because they have to spend $800,000 a month. as opposed to $800 a month. And then we also, since we're using payment authentication, we're piggybacking on the authentication system of the payment system, and we're also piggybacking off of Apple's authentication system, which is another layer of security.

So the net effect will be, over time, that the verified users will pretty much always be at the top of comments and search and you won't really see, you'll have to scroll far to see the unverified users, which will be the bots and trolls and what not. And this is sort of analogous to Google search. If you go to page eight of Google search, there will be a ton of scams and stuff, call it page eight, page nine, something like that. But the thing is that Google search results are so good for page one that you never go to page eight. Or it's rare. And like the old joke is,

Yeah, basically the bad stuff gets pushed way down. And then crime stops paying and they stop trying to do all these things.

Yeah. So, I mean, the joke is like, what's the best place to hide a dead body would be the second page of Google search results. Nobody ever goes there.

No, it's not going to say four billion a year. I wish. I mean, to be frank, Twitter was having pretty serious revenue challenges and cost challenges before the acquisition talks started. And any company that is dependent on advertising has had a hard time. So if you look at, say, Snap or, you know, Google, Facebook, whatnot, they've all had a difficult time with advertising revenue dropping. And Twitter is more... they're currently more vulnerable than they are to advertising because most of Twitter's advertising is large brand advertising as opposed to direct response. So it's kind of like a much more of a discretionary ad spend than it is for Like if you can do direct response for a specific product.

And then we also recently had a lot of difficulty with activist groups pressuring major advertisers to stop spending money on Twitter. This is despite us doing everything possible to appease them and to make it clear that moderation rules and hateful conduct rules have not changed and we're continuing to enforce them. A number of major advertisers have stopped spending on Twitter. But this doesn't seem right because we've made no change in our operations at all and But nonetheless, the activist groups have been successful in causing a massive drop in Twitter advertising revenue, and we've done our absolute best to appease them, and nothing is working. So this is a major concern, and I think this is, frankly, an attack on the First Amendment.

Like, if activist groups can pressure advertisers, upon which Twitter is fundamentally dependent, to suppress free speech, then that doesn't seem right.

Yeah, my workload went up from about, I don't know, 70 to 80 hours a week to probably 120. So, yeah, I go to sleep, I wake up, I work, go to sleep, wake up, work, do that seven days a week. I'll have to do that for a while. No choice. But I think once Twitter is set on the right path, I think it is a much easier thing to manage than SpaceX or Tesla. So... And I really understand the internet and how to make... I wrote software personally for 20 years. I was one of the key people behind x.com which became PayPal. And so I'm also aware of... I know how to make a way better PayPal.

Yeah, pretty much. I mean, with a lot of other people, but there's a product plan I wrote, which I wish I'd kept a copy of in July of 2000, where I thought it would be possible to make the most valuable financial institution in the world. And we're going to execute that plan from 22 years ago, which amazingly no one has done. And so I think that's part of why I think Twitter will be ultimately extremely valuable because I'm going to execute the x.com game plan from 22 years ago with some improvements. And, um, and then we're also gonna obviously make Twitter just a wave out of our system.

Um, I mean, it stands to reason that, um, you know, if, if, if, if a social media company is, um, is not taking steps to make it positive to be on that social platform, then people won't come or they'll leave. You speak of sort of anti-Semitism or racism or anything like that. Well, I mean, who's going to stay on a platform if that's prevalent?

Yeah, I mean, come on. Part of its inherent wrongness, who's going to stay on the platform? So you want to be... It needs to be something where, like, our goal with Twitter is, like, how do we get 80 of America, maybe not like the sort of far left and the far right, but maybe we don't want them necessarily, but how do we get 80 of the public to join a digital town square and voice their opinion and exchange ideas and maybe once in a while change their minds?

Yeah, I mean, you know, once in a while.

Well, I don't want them to hate me. But I think the extremists, like, you know, it's just very difficult to satisfy extremists. So, unless you fully buy into whatever their dogma is, so... But I'm confident we can satisfy, I don't know, 80 of America, 80 of the world, but maybe not the 10 most extreme of either side. And I would count that as a great outcome. And I think it is important to have a digital town square where people feel comfortable talking. And I also think it's like one of the things that's important is to be able to sort of decide what kind of experience you want to have on Twitter. Because some people might say, OK, like I want the-- like if this was a radio station, I want the easy listening, smooth jazz station. OK, cool. So you should be able to have that setting for Twitter.

And then some people might say, I want heavy metal thrash. And like, okay, so now this is gonna be sort of, then you don't mind someone saying mean things to you, you know, within the context of the law. and you don't mind engaging in vigorous arguments on Twitter and that kind of thing, but you should be able to kind of like pick your preference and decide if you want sort of full contact battle or do you want like, no, I just want to look at puppies and flowers and nice landscapes and stuff.

I mean, I have to be careful of MNPI, but I believe I have said in the past publicly that our aspiration is to reach 40,000 a week by the end of this year.

Yeah.

Yes, totally. So, I mean, we had a bit of criticism from our Q3 results because we had a lot of cars in transit. And the reason was that we got too big for our cars to actually be transported in the final few weeks. There just weren't enough car carriers and weren't enough ships. But it's actually good in the long run to smooth out deliveries and actually have cars in transit at the end of the quarter because then you're not rushing to get everything delivered by the end of the quarter and paying all these expedite fees.

Yes.

- But also, yeah, I mean, if you're in the area, have the car just drive to you.

Thank you. Yeah.

I can talk longer if you'd like. Don't shoot the messenger.

Oh, yeah.

Well, the scaling constraints change as time goes by. In the beginning, we were just very vertically integrated because suppliers didn't take us seriously. Like we could get hardly any of the A of the best suppliers wouldn't talk to us because the car startup has not been successful in the United States since Chrysler in the 20s, I believe they started. So it's been a century since a car company was successful in the US that was not a foreign car company coming in with that was already successful in their home market. But for an American car startup, Tesla was the first success in 100 years. So you can imagine if you're an auto supplier, that doesn't sound like a smart financial decision. Exactly. So then we had to just build a lot of the stuff ourselves, be vertically integrated, or we couldn't create the car. And then that ended up being an asset because now we understood so much about the entire supply chain and what it took to build a car.

So we were able to design a more integrated a vehicle that actually needed far fewer parts and cost less and weighs less and has higher performance. But it is looking increasingly like for some of the critical elements of batteries that Tesla will need to get into the mining business, mining and refining.

No, and we've never contemplated investing in Glencore. I'm talking about Tesla doing it.

Yes.

With Q&A.

The powers that be.

-I mean, is it for me or you? I don't know.
, Seneca once said, Every genius has a touch of madness. I thought you'd like that quote.

I agree with the madness part.

Well, I actually rarely try to convince anyone to invest in Tesla. And many times I've recommended people don't invest in Tesla, and I've said our stock is too high, but then people just ignore me and keep buying the stock for some reason. So, I think at a very high level, I'd say that autonomy is an insanely fundamental breakthrough. And no one is even close to Tesla for solving generalized autonomy, generalized self-driving vehicles. No one's even close. And with self-driving, as I was talking about earlier, the car becomes, call it roughly five times more useful. But it costs the same to build.

Now, can you imagine what would happen if a company was doing, they were doing like 25 to 30 gross margins, But suddenly that same thing was five times more valuable. What would that do to the value of Tesla and the value of that car? It boggles the mind, actually. So, you know, if you think of net present value of future cash flows, if you actually do the math on that, it's insane. Then there's also the Optimus program, which is our humanoid robot. where we'll leverage our manufacturing expertise and the intelligence we've developed for self-driving to have a useful humanoid robot. Now, the economy is fundamentally GDP per capita times capita.

If you no longer have a constraint on capita because of a useful humanoid robot, it is not clear that there's any limit to the size of the economy. And these things will actually happen. So-- OK. That's probably a good reason.

Thank you.

Maybe.

Do they want to come in?

Thank you.

Yes.

Well, thanks. I think they actually are using that idea in London and some other cities. I think the long-term goal for our supercharger stations is that they will have solar like Tesla solar and batteries at them so that they are, as many as possible, are self-sustaining. That the supercharger stations generate the energy during the day and then also have a localized battery pack so that people can charge at night so that the Tesla supercharging stations would continue to function even in a zombie apocalypse. Just never know, that's coming one day, we know it. It's just a matter of time.

You're--

Also, please use Twitter.

Please subscribe to Twitter Verified, eight bucks. And actually it's technically at $7.99, so slightly less. But I really encourage everyone here to use Twitter and, you know, yeah, please do that.
Musk, great to see you. How are you?

Good, how are you?

Yeah, absolutely. I think in general, there's a lot of discussion of this problem or that problem. A lot of people are sad about the future and that they're pessimistic. I think this is... This is not great. I mean, we really want to wake up in the morning and look forward to the future. We want to be excited about what's going to happen. And life cannot simply be about sort of solving one miserable problem after another.

Yeah, so I am not one of the doomsday people, which may surprise you. I actually think we're on a good path. But at the same time, I want to caution against complacency. So long as we are not complacent, as long as we have a high sense of urgency about moving towards a sustainable energy economy, then I think things will be fine. So I can't emphasize that enough. So long as we push hard and are not complacent, the future's going to be great. Don't worry about it. I mean, worry about it, but if you worry about it, ironically, it will be a self-unfulfilling prophecy. So there are three elements to a sustainable energy future. One is obviously sustainable energy generation, which is primarily wind and solar. There's also hydro, geothermal. I'm actually pro-nuclear.

I think But it's going to be primarily solar and wind as the primary generators of energy. The second part is you need batteries to store the solar and wind energy because the sun doesn't shine all the time, the wind doesn't blow all the time. So you need a lot of stationary battery packs. And then you need electric transport. So electric cars, electric planes, boats, and then ultimately it's not really possible to make electric rockets but you can make the propellant used in rockets using sustainable energy. So ultimately we can have a fully sustainable energy economy and And it's those three things, solar wind, stationary battery pack, electric vehicles. So then what are the limiting factors on progress? The limiting factor really will be battery cell production.

So that's going to really be the fundamental rate driver and then whatever the slowest element of the whole lithium ion battery cells supply chain from mining and the many steps of refining to ultimately creating a battery cell and putting it into a pack that will be the limiting factor on progress towards sustainability.

That's the end goal. Very rough numbers, and I certainly would invite others to check our calculations because they may arrive at different conclusions. But in order to transition not just current electricity production, but also heating and transport, which roughly triples the amount of electricity that you need, it amounts to approximately 300 terawatt hours of installed capacity.

We'll probably do more than that, but yes, that's hopefully we get there within a couple of years.

0.1 terawatt hours.

I mean, these are just guesses. I mean, so please, people shouldn't hold me to these things. It's not like this is like some-- what does happen is I'll make some like, you know, best guess, and then people will-- in five years, there'll be some jerk that writes an article, Elon said this would happen, and it didn't happen. He's a liar and a fool. It's very annoying when that happens. So these are just guesses. This is a conversation. I think Tesla probably ends up doing 10 of that, roughly.

People should be optimistic about the future. humanity will solve sustainable energy. It will happen. If we are, you know, continue to push hard, the future is bright and good from an energy standpoint. And then it will be possible to also use that energy to do carbon sequestration. It takes a lot of energy to pull carbon out of the atmosphere just as it, because in putting it in the atmosphere, it released energy. So now, you know, obviously in order to pull it out, you need to use a lot of energy. But if you've got a lot of sustainable energy from wind and solar, you can actually sequester carbon, so you can reverse the CO2, parts per million of the atmosphere and oceans. And also, you can really have as much fresh water as you want. Earth is mostly water. We should call Earth water. It's 70 water by surface area. Now, most of that's seawater, but it's still, it's like, we just have to be on the bit that's land. Right.

- Yes.

Yes, absolutely. At very low cost.

Things will be good.

Yes, exactly. Because when you burn fossil fuels, there's all these side reactions and toxic gases of various kinds, and little particulates that are bad for your lungs. There's all sorts of bad things that are happening that will go away. And the sky will be cleaner and quieter. The future's going to be good.

- I did almost exactly half a million.

Yeah, I don't want to blow your mind, but I'm not always right.

I mean, the thing that really got me and I think is going to get a lot of other people is that there are just so many false storms with self-driving where you think you've got the problem, have a handle on the problem, and then it, nope, turns out you just hit a ceiling. Because if you were to plot the progress, the progress looks like a log curve. So it's like a series of log curves. Most people don't know what a log curve is, I suppose. Show the shape of your hands. It goes up sort of a fairly straight way, and then it starts tailing off, and you start getting diminishing returns. And you're like, Uh-oh, this, it was trending up, and now it's sort of curving over and not. And you start getting to these, what I call, local maxima, where you don't realize basically how dumb you were. And then it happens again.

So, and ultimately, these things, in retrospect, they seem obvious, but in order to solve full self-driving properly, you actually just, you have to solve real world AI. 'cause you said, what are the road networks designed to work with? They're designed to work with a biological neural net, our brains, and with vision, our eyes. And so in order to make it work, with computers, you basically need to solve real-world AI and vision. Because we need cameras and silicon neural nets in order to have self-driving work for a system that was designed for eyes and biological neural nets.

I guess when you put it that way, it's sort of quite obvious that the only way to solve full self-driving is to solve real-world AI and sophisticated vision.

Well, I mean, these may be infamous last words, but I actually am confident that we will solve it this year. That we will exceed the probability of an accident. At what point do you exceed that of the average person? I think we will exceed that this year.

We're almost at the point where we have a high quality unified vector space. In the beginning, we were trying to do this with image recognition on individual images. But if you look at one image out of a video, it's actually quite hard to see what's going on with that image. But if you look at a video segment of a few seconds of video, that ambiguity resolves. So the first thing we had to do was tie all eight cameras together so they're synchronized. So all the frames are looked at simultaneously and labeled simultaneously by one person, because we still need human labeling. So at least they're not labeled at different times by different people in different ways. So it's sort of a surround picture. Then a very important part is to add the time dimension.

So you're looking at surround video and you're labeling it around video and this is actually quite difficult to do from a software standpoint. We had to write our own labeling tools and then create and create auto labeling software to amplify the efficiency of human labelers because it's quite hard to label video. In the beginning, it was taking several hours to label a 10-second video clip. This is not scalable.

So basically what you have to have is you have to have surround video and that surround video has to be primarily automatically labeled with humans just being editors and making slight corrections to the labeling of the video and then feeding back those corrections into the future auto-labeler so you get this flywheel eventually where the auto-labeler is able to take in vast amounts of video and with high accuracy automatically label the video for cars, lane lines, drive space.

You basically need to have memory across time and space. So what I mean by that is, if you... Because the memory can't be infinite because it's using up a lot of the computer's RAM, basically. So you have to say, how much are you going to try to remember? But it's very common for things to be occluded. So if you talk about, say, a pedestrian walking past a truck where you saw the pedestrian start on one side of the truck, then they're occluded by the truck. Right. But you would know intuitively, OK, that pedestrian is going to pop out the other side most likely.

Slow down.

Yes, I mean the car currently drives me around Austin most of the time with no interventions. So it's not like... And we have over 100,000 people in our full stop driving beta program. So you can look at the videos that they post online. I do. Okay, great.

Yes, that's what it seems like. I mean, like I said, you know, we could be here talking again in a year. It's like, well, yet another year went by and it didn't happen. But I think this is the year.

Well, I generally believe in terms of internal timelines that we want to set the most aggressive timeline that we can. Because there's sort of like a law of gases expansion for schedules where whatever time you set, it's not going to be less than that. It's very rare that it will be less than that. As far as my predictions are concerned, what tends to happen in the media is that they will report all the wrong ones and ignore all the right ones. When writing an article about me, I've had a long career in multiple industries. If you list my sins, I sound like the worst person on earth. But if you put those against the things I've done right, it makes much more sense. So essentially, the longer you do anything, the more mistakes that you will make cumulatively, which if you sum up those mistakes, will sound like I'm the worst predictor ever.

But for example, for Tesla, Vehicle growth I said, I think we're do 50 percent and we've done 80 percent. Yes, so But they don't mention that one So if I mean, I'm not sure what my exact track record is on predictions They're more optimistic than pessimistic, but they're not all optimistic Some of them are exceeded Probably more or later but they they do come true. It's very rare that they do not come true. It's sort of like, you know, if there's some radical technology prediction, the point is not that it was a few years late, but that it happened at all. That's the more important part.

Yes.

Yeah, exactly. So, you know, it took me a while to sort of realize that in order to solve self-driving, you really needed to solve real-world AI. And at the point at which you solve real-world AI for a car, which is really a robot on four wheels, you can then generalize that to a robot on legs as well. The two hard parts, I think, like, obviously, companies like Boston Dynamics have shown that it's possible to make quite compelling, sometimes alarming robots. Right. You know, so this is, from a sensor and actuator standpoint, it's certainly been demonstrated by many that it's possible to make a humanoid robot. The thing that, the things that are currently missing are enough intelligence, enough intelligence for the robot to navigate the real world and do useful things without being explicitly instructed. So the missing things are basically real world intelligence and scaling up manufacturing. Those are two things that Tesla is very good at.

And so then we basically just need to design the specialized actuators and sensors that are needed for a humanoid robot. People have no idea. This is going to be bigger than the car.

- Walking speed, basically.

Yeah, it doesn't take it over and--

And we're resting our sleep or something.

Yeah, absolutely. Make dinner, I guess, mow the lawn.

Exactly, take care of my grandmother and make sure, yeah, exactly.

Yeah.

Yes. I mean, obviously we need to be careful that this doesn't become a dystopian situation. I think one of the things that's going to be important is to have a localized ROM chip on the robot that cannot be updated over the air. Where if you, for example, were to say, Stop, stop, stop, that would-- if anyone said that, then the robot would stop, you know, type of thing. And that's not updatable remotely. I think it's going to be important to have safety features like that.

I do think there should be a regulatory agency for AI. I've said this for many years. I don't love being regulated, but I think this is an important thing for public safety.

Now we have a computer in our pocket.

Yeah, you'll have your sort of buddy robot. Probably. Yeah.

I mean, it's probably inevitable. I mean, I did promise the internet that I'd make cat goals. How could we make a robot cat goal? I mean, I-- So yeah, I guess it'll be whatever people want really.

The first units that we intend to make are for jobs that are dangerous, boring, repetitive, and things that people don't want to do. I think we'll have an interesting prototype sometime this year. We might have something useful next year, but I think quite likely within at least two years. And then we'll see rapid growth year over year of the usefulness of the humanoid robots and decrease in cost and scaling up production.

I'd say less than 10 years.

Well, I think the cost is actually not going to be crazy high. Less than a car. Initially, things will be expensive because it'll be new technology at low production volume. The complexity and cost of a car is greater than that of a humanoid robot. So I would expect that it's going to be less than a car or at least equivalent to a cheap car.

I wouldn't worry about the sort of putting people out of a job thing. I think we're actually going to have and already do have a massive shortage of labor. So I think we will have Not not people out of work, but actually still a shortage labor even in the future but The this really will be a world of abundance any goods and services Will be available to anyone who wants them that it'll be so cheap to have goods and services will be ridiculous.

Yeah, it will be a world of abundance. The only scarcity that will exist in the future is that which we decide to create ourselves as humans.

Well, like I said, AI and robotics will bring out what might be termed the age of abundance. Other people have used this word. And this is my prediction, it'll be an age of abundance for everyone. I guess there's The dangers would be the artificial general intelligence or digital super intelligence decouples from a collective human will and goes in a direction that for some reason we don't like, whatever direction it might go. That's sort of the idea behind Neuralink is to try to more tightly couple collective human will to digital super intelligence. And also along the way solve a lot of brain injuries and spinal injuries and that kind of thing.

So even if it doesn't succeed in the greater goal, I think it will succeed in the goal of alleviating brain and spine damage.

No, I think it's a risk. I agree. I'm not saying that I have some certain answer to that risk. I'm just saying like maybe one of the things that would be good for ensuring that the future is one that we want is to more tightly couple the collective human will to digital intelligence.

The issue that we face here is that we're already a cyborg, if you think about it. The computers are an extension of ourselves. And when we die, we have like a digital ghost. All of our text messages and social media and emails. It's quite eerie, actually, when someone dies, but everything online is still there. But you say, what's the limitation? What is it that... inhibits human machine symbiosis. It's the data rate. When you communicate, especially with a phone, you're moving your thumbs very slowly. So you're moving your two little meat sticks.

At a rate that's maybe 10 bits per second, optimistically 100 bits per second. And computers are communicating at the gigabit level.

Yeah, so the fundamental principles of reading neurons, sort of doing read-write on neurons with tiny electrodes have been demonstrated for decades. So it's not like the concept is new. The problem is that there's no product that works well that you can go and buy. So it's all sort of in research labs. And it's not, it's, there's always like some cord sticking out of your head and it's quite gruesome and it's really, There's no good product that actually does a good job and is high bandwidth and safe and something that you could buy and would want to buy. But in it, the way to think of the Neuralink device is kind of like a Fitbit.

or an Apple Watch that's where we take out a sort of a small section of skull about the size of a quarter, replace that with what in many ways really is very much like if it were an Apple watch or some kind of smart watch thing. But with tiny, tiny wires, very, very tiny wires, wires so tiny it's hard to even see them. And it's very important to have very tiny wires so that when they're implanted, they don't damage the brain.

Well, we have put in our FDA application to have the aspirationally do the first human implant this year.

Well, I do want to emphasize we're at an early stage and so it really will be many years before we have anything approximating a high bandwidth neural interface that allows for AI human symbiosis. For many years we will just be solving brain injuries and spinal injuries for probably a decade. This is not something that will suddenly one day it will have this incredible sort of whole brain interface. It's going to be, like I said, at least a decade of really just solving brain injuries and spinal injuries.

And really, I think you can solve a very wide range of brain injuries, including severe depression, morbid obesity, sleep, potentially schizophrenia, like a lot of things that cause great stress to people, restoring memory in older people.

Yeah, I mean the emails that we get at Neuralink are heartbreaking. I mean, they'll send us just tragic, you know, where someone was sort of in the prime of life and they had an accident on a motorcycle and someone who's 25 is, you know, can't even feed themselves. And this is something we could fix.

Yes, it's... There's the short-term thing, which I think is helpful on an individual human level with injuries, and then the long-term thing is an attempt to... address the civilizational risk of AI by bringing digital intelligence and biological intelligence closer together. I mean, if you think of how the brain works today, there are really kind of two layers to the brain. There's the limbic system and the cortex. You've got the kind of animal brain where, which is kind of like the fun part, really,

Yeah, I mean, we're, I think like Tim Oven said this, we're like somebody stuck a computer on a monkey. So we're like, if you gave a monkey a computer, that's our cortex. But we still have a lot of monkey instincts. Right. So... which we then try to rationalize as, No, it's not a monkey instinct. It's something more important than that. But it's often just really a monkey instinct. We're just monkeys with a computer stuck in our brain. Even though the cortex is the smart or the intelligent part of the brain, the thinking part of the brain, I've not yet met anyone who wants to delete their limbic system or their cortex. They're quite happy having both. Everyone wants both parts of their brain. And people really want their phones and their computers, which are really the tertiary, the third part of your intelligence.

It's just that it's, like I said, the bandwidth, the rate of communication with that tertiary layer is slow. And it's just a very tiny stroll to this tertiary layer. And we want to make that tiny stroll a big highway. And I'm definitely not saying that this is going to solve everything. You know, it's the only thing, it's something that might be helpful. And worst case scenario, I think we solve some important brain injury, spinal injury issues, and that's still a great.

Starship is extremely fundamental. So the holy grail of rocketry or space transport is full and rapid reusability. This has never been achieved. The closest that anything has come is our Falcon 9 rocket where we are able to recover the first stage, the boost stage, which is probably about 60 of the cost of the vehicle, of the whole launch, maybe 70%. We've now done that over 100 times. So with Starship, we will be recovering the entire thing. That's the goal. And moreover, recovering it in such a way that it can be immediately reflown. Whereas with Falcon 9, we still need to do some amount of refurbishment to the booster and to the ferry nose cone. But with Starship, the design goal is immediate reflight.

So you just refill propellants in. and go again. And this is gigantic. Just as it would be in any other mode of transport.

Sure. And just to put the cost thing into perspective, the expected cost of Starship putting 100 tons into orbit is significantly less than what it would have cost or what it did cost to put our tiny Falcon 1 rocket into orbit. Just as the cost of flying a 747 around the world is less than the cost of a small airplane. You know, a small airplane that was thrown away. So it's really pretty mind-boggling that the giant thing costs less, way less than the small thing. So it doesn't use sort of exotic propellants or things that are difficult to obtain on Mars. It uses Methane is fuel and it's primarily oxygen. It's sort of roughly 77, 78 oxygen by weight.

And Mars has a CO2 atmosphere and has water ice, which is CO2 plus H2O. So you can make CH4, methane, and O2 oxygen on Mars.

Yes.

Yes, and actually it's mostly going to be an oxygen plant, but it's because it's 78 oxygen, 22 fuel. But the fuel is a simple fuel that is easy to create on Mars and many other parts of the solar system. So basically, and it's all propulsive landing, no parachutes, nothing thrown away, it has a heat shield that's capable of entering on Earth or Mars. We could even potentially go to Venus, but you don't want to go there. Venus is hell, almost literally. But you could-- it's a generalized a method of transport to anywhere in the solar system. Because the point which have a propellant depot on Mars, you can then travel to the asteroid belt and to the moons of Jupiter and then to Saturn and ultimately anywhere in the solar system.

Nasa is planning to use Starship to return people to the moon. We're very honored that NASA has chosen us to do this. But I'm saying it is a generalized, it's a general solution to getting anywhere in the greater solar system. It's not suitable for going to another star system, but it is a general solution for transport anywhere in the solar system.

It's looking promising for us to have an orbital launch attempt in a few months. So we're actually integrating the engines into the booster for the first orbital flight starting in about a week or two. The launch complex itself is ready to go. So assuming we get regulatory approval, I think we could have an orbital launch attempt within a few months.

Yeah, yeah. Yeah, like, I mean, the joke I make all the time is that excitement is guaranteed. Success is not guaranteed, but excitement certainly is.

Yeah, I mean, so... Let's see, I mean, we have built a production system for Starship, so we're making a lot of ships and boosters.

Well, we're currently expecting to make a booster and a ship roughly every, well, initially roughly every couple months, and hopefully by the end of this year, one every month. So it's giant rockets, and a lot of them. Just in terms, talking in terms of rough orders of magnitude, in order to create a self-sustaining city on Mars, I think we'll need something on the order of a thousand ships. We just need a Helen rocket. of Sparta, I guess, on Mars.

- I'm not that launched a thousand jokes.

- It'd be like Battlestar Galactica, the fleet departs.

Well, I think, you said, what's required in order to get enough people and enough cargo to Mars to build a self-sustaining city? And it's where you have an intersection of sets of people who want to go, because I think only a small percentage of humanity will want to go, and can afford to go or get sponsorship in some manner. That intersection of sets, I think, needs to be a million people or something like that. And so it's what what what can a million people afford or get sponsorship for or because I think governments will also pay for it and People take out loans and but a bit but I think at the point which You say okay. Okay, like if if moving to Mars costs are probably gonna take $100,000 then I think You know almost anyone can work and save up and and eventually have $100,000 and be able to go to Mars We want to make it available to anyone who wants to go.

Yeah. So it's very important to emphasize that Mars, especially in the beginning, will not be luxurious. It will be dangerous, cramped, difficult, hard work. It's kind of like that Shackleton ad for going to the Antarctic, which I think is actually not real, but it sounds real and it's cool. It's sort of like the sales pitch for going to Mars is it's dangerous, it's cramped, you might not make it back, it's difficult, it's hard work. That's the sales pitch.

But it'll be glorious.

It's the people of Mars, the city. The reason for this, I mean, I have to say, like, we feel like, well, why do this thing? It's, I think this is important for maximizing the probable lifespan of humanity or consciousness. Human civilization could come to an end for external reasons, like a giant meteor or super volcanoes or extreme climate change. or World War III or you know, any one of a number of reasons. And But the probable lifespan of civilizational consciousness as we know it, which we should really view as this very delicate thing, like a small candle in a vast darkness, that is what appears to be the case.

We're in this vast darkness of space, and there's this little candle of consciousness that's only really come about after 4.5 billion years. And it could just go out.

Really, the critical threshold is if the ships from Earth stop coming for any reason, does the Mars city die out or not? People talk about the great filters, the things that perhaps You know, we talk about the Fermi paradox and where are the aliens? And like, well, maybe the aliens didn't, there is various great filters that the aliens didn't pass. And so they eventually just ceased to exist. And one of the great filters is becoming a multi-planet species. So we want to pass that filter. And I'll be long dead before this is, you know, a real thing, before it happens. But I'd like to at least see us make great progress in this direction.

Well, I think ultimately this will be up to the people of Mars to decide how they want to rethink society. Yet there's certainly a risk there and hopefully the people of Mars will be more enlightened and will not fight amongst each other too much. I mean, I have some recommendations, but which people of Mars may choose to listen to or not. And I would advocate for more of a direct democracy, not a representative democracy, and laws that are short enough for people to understand, and where it is harder to create laws than to get rid of them.

Yes.

Was a piece of technology.

You can make it a lot easier if you've got more volume and mass.

I mean, roughly I would say it's probably an order of magnitude more resolution if you've got 100 tons and 1,000 cubic meters volume, which is roughly what we have.

- Big question mark.

Maybe there's like some squid civilization under the cephalopod civilization under the ice of Europe. That would be pretty interesting.

- It's pretty wild, yeah.

I don't know, we've certainly got a long way to go. As you alluded to earlier, we still have to get to orbit. And then after we get to orbit, we have to really prove out and refine full and rapid reusability. That'll take a moment. But I do think we will solve this. I'm highly confident we will solve this at this point.

We've had many Hindenburg, well, we've never had Hindenburg moments with people, which is very important, big difference.

We've blown out quite a few rockets. There's a whole compilation online that we've put together and others have put together, ensuring rockets are hard. The sheer amount of energy going through rockets boggles the mind.

Getting out of Earth's gravity well is difficult. We have a strong gravity and a thick atmosphere. And Mars, which is less than 40 of... It's like 37 of Earth's gravity and has a thin atmosphere. The ship alone can go all the way from the surface of Mars to the surface of Earth. Whereas getting to Mars requires a giant booster and orbital refilling.

Yeah.

- Some places are more challenging than others.

If it's just in a tunnel, that's the sole problem, basically.

Yeah, this is a real possibility. It's a... Yeah, the fastest way to get from one place to another if it's long distance is a rocket. It's basically ICBM with a landing, delete the nuke.

Yes, it's pretty loud.

These are not intended to be connected, by the way. But there certainly could be some synergies, yeah.

It is tricky because Tesla is a publicly traded company and the investor base of Tesla and SpaceX and certainly Boring Company and Neuralink are quite different. Boring Company and Neuralink are tiny companies. Right. My comparison. The audience may... Yeah. Tesla's got 110,000 people. SpaceX, I think, is around 12,000 people. Boring Company and Neuralink are both under 200 people. So they're little tiny companies, but they will probably get bigger in the future. They will get bigger in the future. It's not that easy to sort of combine these things.

Making Life Multiplanetary is outside of the normal time horizon of Wall Street analysts, to say the least.

I mean, I would like to give the public access to ownership of SpaceX. But the overhead associated with a public company is high. So as a public company, you're just constantly sued. It does occupy a fair bit of time and effort to deal with these things.

I'm actually not even on the Neuralink or Boring Company boards. Oh, oh well. Yeah, and I don't really attend the SpaceX board meetings. We only have two a year and I just stop by and chat for an hour. So the board overhead for a public company is much higher.

That's not a sovereign. You know, I think it's fair to say that if somebody is like the king or de facto king of a country, they're wealthier than I am.

How insane is that?

I actually don't think about that too much, but the thing that is actually more difficult and that does make sleeping difficult is that Every good hour or even minute of thinking about Tesla and SpaceX has such a big effect on the company that I really try to work as much as possible to the edge of sanity, basically. Tesla is getting to the point where, probably will get to the point later this year, where every good, every high quality minute of thinking is a million dollars to impact on Tesla. Which is insane.

So, I mean the basic, you know, if Tesla's doing, you know, of a sort of $2 billion a week, let's say in revenues, sort of $300 million a day, seven days a week, you know, it's,

I mean, there are many instances where a half hour meeting, I was able to improve the financial outcome of the company by $100 million in a half hour meeting.

If they examine sort of the, I think there's some axiomatic flaws that are leading to that conclusion. For sure it would be very problematic if I was consuming you know billions of dollars a year in personal consumption but that is not the case um in fact i don't even own a home right now um i'm literally staying at friends places i if i travel to the bay area which where most of tells engineering is i stay in my i basically rotate through friends spare bedrooms um i don't have a yacht i really don't take vacations uh so um i It's not as though my personal consumption is high. The one exception is a plane, but if I don't use the plane, then I have less hours to work.

So--

I think if you care about the reality of goodness instead of the perception of it, philanthropy is extremely difficult. SpaceX, Tesla, Neuralink, and Boring Company are philanthropy. If you say philanthropy is love of humanity, they are philanthropy. Tesla is accelerating sustainable energy. This is a love of full anthropy. SpaceX is trying to ensure the long-term survival of humanity with multi-planet species. This is love of humanity. Neuralink is to help solve brain injuries and existential risk with AI, love of humanity. Warren Company is trying to solve traffic, which is health for most people and that also is like humanity.

I mean, at this point, it's water off a duck's back.

I mean, I'm trying to say a good example because the birth rate on Earth is so low that we're facing civilizational collapse unless the birth rate returns to a sustainable level.

We... Yes.

Lives is one of the biggest threats to the future of human civilization. And that is what is going on right now.

I guess, like, I really want to make sure that there is a good future for humanity and that we're on a path to understanding the nature of the universe, the meaning of life, why are we here, how did we get here. And in order to understand the nature of the universe and all these fundamental questions, we must expand the scope and scale of consciousness Certainly it must not diminish or go out. We certainly weren't to understand this. So I would say I'm motivated by curiosity more than anything. And just a desire to think about the future and not be sad, you know.

I'm sometimes sad. Mostly I'm feeling, I guess, relatively optimistic about the future these days. There are certainly some big risks that humanity faces. I think the population collapse is a really big deal that I wish more people would think about. Because the birth rate is far below what's needed to sustain civilization at its current level. And yeah, there's obviously We need to take action on climate sustainability, which is being done. And we need to secure the future of consciousness by being a multi-planet species. We need to address the... Essentially, it's important to take whatever actions we can think of to address the existential risks that affect the future of consciousness.

Well, I think if you want the future to be good, you must make it so. Take action to make it good. And it will be.

You're welcome.

All right.

Yeah, I'm at Global Engineering Headquarters in Palo Alto.

Yes, it's... I need to look at the exact time, but tomorrow morning, your time, I think would be probably correct. Okay. So, yes, I will be interviewing... Ron Sanchez, and he has quite an announcement to make. And will be the first time that something like this is happening on social media and with real time questions and answers, not scripted. So it's gonna be live and let her up. Let's see what happens. Thank you.

Yes, I mean, I'm not at this time planning to endorse any particular candidates, but I am interested in, you know, X/Twitter somewhat of a public town square and where more and more organizations host content and make announcements on Twitter. It's the only place on the internet to really get real time, like down to the minute and second news. And it's, yeah, so I think it's quite groundbreaking that there'd be a major announcement of this type on social media.

Yes, absolutely. So just as I promised when I do a series of media interviews, I did a range of interviews. And I guess this would be also a media interview. So ranging from sort of on the left, moderate, to what's considered right. And I do think it's important that Twitter be both the reality and the perception of a level playing field of a a place where all voices are heard and where there's the kind of dynamic interaction that is, you don't really see anywhere else. I mean, today on Twitter, for example, AOC got into, and Ted Cruz got into an argument on Twitter, which was, independent of which side you agree with, it's still very entertaining.

Do you mean matter for me as an individual,

Well, I've said publicly that my preference, and I think would be the preference of most Americans, is really to have someone fairly normal in office. I think we'd all be quite happy with that, actually. You know, I think someone that is representative of the moderate views that I think most of the country holds, in reality. And... But the way things are set up is that we do have a system that seems to push things towards the edges because of the primaries. So in order to win the primary, you've got to win, obviously, majority of your party's vote in both cases. That tends to cause a swing to the left and the right Although I think things are more complex than simply left and right during the primaries. And then a shift towards the center for the general election.

As for what I think is-- yeah, so I would really just like someone fairly normal and sensible to be the president. That would be great.

I think I need to be careful about these statements. So we maybe have to have a few drinks before I would give you the answers to all of them.

Well, my days are very long and complicated, as you might imagine. Yeah. And there's a great deal of context switching. So... There's a meme I like called like relating to doom where it's like fear is not the mind killer, context switching is. So switching context is quite painful. But I do generally try to divide companies. So it's predominantly one company on one day. So today is a Tesla day, for example. Although I might end up at Twitter late tonight, and then tomorrow would be partly a Tesla day as well, but sort of half Twitter. And then Thursday would be sort of a half SpaceX, half Tesla day. But these things somewhat intertwine. So the time management is extremely difficult. And this is going to sound pretty strange, but I only have one part-time assistant.

I mean, I suppose it was the Alex who works who would technically be full-time, but it's not. I do most of the scheduling myself. And the reason I do that is because it's impossible for someone else to know what the priorities are. So, and since the most valuable thing I have is time, I schedule it myself for the most part.

Yeah, so today I have several hours of scheduled meetings at Twitter. So there are a number of things that operate in a weekly cadence. And so those meetings are already set up. And then I have supplemental meetings at the end of the day. But to be clear, I won't be going to sleep until probably 2 a.m. or something like that. I'll be working almost the entire time.

I guess we'll all be using technology. I don't use a lot of AI myself day to day. I mean, Tesla AI is actually very advanced for real world AI. It's the most advanced real world AI by far. And in fact, if positions were swapped and it was up to Microsoft and OpenAI to create the best large language model, or basically if the tasks were swapped, Tesla was given the task of making the most competitive large language model and Microsoft and OpenAI were tasked with self-driving, Tesla would win. I don't think people understand the degree of the capability of Tesla's AI system. So, while I don't use AI a lot personally, Tesla uses it a tremendous amount.

Yeah, succession is one of the toughest age-old problems. You know, it's plagued you know, countries, kings, prime ministers and presidents for, and CEOs for, you know, since the dawn of history, there is no obvious solution. I mean, there are particular individuals identified as, that I've told the board, look, if something happens to me unexpectedly, this is who, this is my recommendation for taking over. So in all cases, the board is aware of who my recommendation is, which they may choose to, it's up to them, of course, they may choose to go a different direction, but there is a, in the worst case scenario, this is who should run the company.

The control question is a much more, is a much tougher question, and something that I'm wrestling with, and I'm practically open to ideas, because It certainly is true that the companies that I have created and are creating collectively possess immense capability. And so the stewardship of them is incredibly important. I want to make sure that the stewardship is ultimately accrues to the benefit of humanity. That's the idea is the furtherance of civilization. Not that we're always successful in that, but that is aspirationally our goal. So I have one idea which is sort of partly in place, which is to create kind of a sort of an educational institution that would control most of my vote.

But this is not a case of... I'm definitely not of the school of automatically giving my kids some share of the companies, even if they have no interest or inclination or ability to manage the company. I think that's a mistake. But it's a very hard problem to solve. And then who should be on the board of directors of the educational institution is also a very, very hard job to solve. So I think probably some desegregation of control would make sense. I'm really just kind of thinking out loud creatively here.

Yes, absolutely. Now the goals of the companies, the achievement of those goals varies considerably in difficulty. The original goal of Tesla was to accelerate the advent of sustainable energy, which actually I think we've done that to a significant degree. And actually it's kind of auto industry CEOs to often acknowledge Tesla's role in accelerating electric vehicles. And so that I feel has a lot of momentum. They're still solving self-driving, which we're aspirationally hoping to do this year. And so Tesla's got a long way to go, but the execution plan is relatively clear. and that execution plan will generate a lot of positive cash flow for the company, so it's a fairly obvious thing to do.

With SpaceX, it's a harder problem because the long-term objective is to make life multi-planetary with a self-sustaining city on Mars, which is likely to be very cash flow negative at first. A long term, let's just say the target market on Mars is small. You gotta think long term here.

Yes, definitely. Sanity will be a prime requirement for instability for traveling to Mars. You don't want someone going nuts and opening the airlock in the middle of the night. Right. So anyway, SpaceX is a harder problem because it's a much longer term goal and with a lot more money lost along the way. So we've got to make sure that that happens.

Yeah, I mean it's to make life multi-planetary such that, and the key threshold for multi-planetary is that if the supply ships from Earth stop coming for any reason, that Mars does not die out. That's the critical great filter if you talk about things in terms of the Fermi paradox. The great filter is Mars being self-sustaining without any resupply ships from Earth. Until we reach that point, we're really just a one planet civilization with an extension. But the point at which the planets are self-sustaining, or Mars is self-sustaining, then we're even in a worst case scenario of Earth civilization either dying with a bang or a whimper, then Mars would have a much better chance of surviving.

So the intent here overall is to ensure the light of consciousness, which appears to be just a tiny candle in a vast darkness, I frequently get asked have I seen any evidence of aliens and I have not. You know, apart from the fact that I did at one point have an alien registration card when I was getting my green card to alien registration.

Thank you.

I hope to live to see the first humans on Mars. But I think it will take some period of time beyond that to make Mars self-sustaining. So it's at least 20 years from the first visit to make Mars sustaining, is my guess. And it may be 40 or 50. And that's assuming you really go for it. So that's a tough one. but like I said, I think important for improving the survivability of civilization.

Yeah, I think long term the value of it will be incredibly high. It's just beyond the planning horizon of most people or most investors. So, I mean obviously if there's a thriving city on Mars and there's a lot of interplanetary commerce and SpaceX is the primary provider of that, it would be immensely valuable. So, but, you know, the important thing is that there be this self-sustaining, you know, colony. And I think we, I think we, generally operate with too much of an assumption that civilization is robust and nothing could really take it down. A sentiment that has been common throughout history among empires shortly before they crumbled.

So, and you know, I have to say, you know, there's a little bit of late stage empire vibes going on right now.

I think it does, yeah. We could definitely make a city of Mars self-sustaining without AI or without sort of AGI, which is generally artificial general intelligence or super intelligence. So I think that is, it's not necessary for anything we're doing, but it is happening and happening very quickly. So there is a risk that advanced AI either eliminates or constrains humanity's growth.

Well, I mean, the development of artificial digital sort of superintelligence is very much a double-edged sword. So if you have a genie that can grant you anything, that can also do anything, that necessarily presents a danger. And I expect the first uses of AI to be... certainly the first common uses of AI to be weapons technology. So just having more advanced weapons on the battlefield that can react faster than any human could. That's really what AI will be capable of. I mean, future wars between of advanced countries, or at least countries that have significant drone capability will be very much the drone wars.

Well, we had conversations over a number of months just relating to advertising. And then Linda felt that it would be very helpful for the advertisers to see me in person, so invited me down to a conference in Miami. which was very helpful and met with a number of advertisers personally to assure them that Twitter is a good place to advertise. In fact, that hate speech has declined, which it has, and that the quality of the system, especially with respect to scammers and spammers, is dramatically better than it used to be. We've gotten rid of, at this point, all over 90 of the scams and spam on Twitter. So it should be quite rare at this point that you see a scam. So we've also rolled out sort of--

They were typically used bots for scouting.

No, I think we have, actually.

I think we have, yeah. Maybe more than 19%. 90 at least. It is now much, much harder to operate a bot farm on Twitter and have it yield any advantage. So dramatic improvement in bots, dramatic improvement in ability to detect sort of troll armies, which is a little different. That's where you've got, say, 100 people in a warehouse in a low-wage country, each of which are sitting at a desk with 100 So you've got 10,000 actual people and they will then act together to brigade a particular subject or make something seem very popular when it is not. And we've been able to defeat almost all of them. We think very few of them are actually still able to operate. So the quality of the system has gotten a lot better.

Yeah.

Well, the general principle is that we will hew close to the law. So for any given country, we will try to adhere as closely to the law as possible. Our laws vary between countries, and we can't simply flat the law in another country because they will simply cut us off. But the general principle is do whatever we can to enable free and open communications between people, provided they're not, like I said,

- Yeah, there is an important thing which is like, that obviously doesn't mean that, say, advertisers should be forced to appear next to any content. So we've also developed adjacency controls that ensure that if what you're advertising is, like Disney, for example, is a big advertiser. If Disney is advertising a children's movie, they want the content nearby to be sort of, family-friendly. That's totally understandable. So it's not like advertisers have to appear next to content that they don't agree with.

I've never heard that yet. But-- nope, never heard that. Not that.

She did, in fact, at the conference that we did in Miami. This speech is paramount.

Yeah, so previously Twitter was mostly focused on this number called mdal, monetizable daily active users.  but the problem is that when you look closely at that, a bunch of those users never even went to Twitter.  they would go to they would see a notification on their phone about a tweet, but they wouldn't actually click through the site. So what really matters is true user seconds of screen time. So that's the figure we track right now. And that's based on the screen time as reported to us by iOS, Android, and the browser. So it would have to be the amount of time the app is in the foreground, which is the most rigorous way to assess this.

Exactly. So in terms of under credit, that's a little harder to measure. We can certainly gather it anecdotally, which is to say that if you spent half an hour in Toyota yesterday, what percentage of that time do you regret? And generally the feedback I've gotten has been very positive, that they find the information to be useful, entertaining, funny. So we seem to be heading in the right direction as far as I can tell. I'm certainly open to any critiques from the room.

Well, I mean, I said, like, Soros reminds me of Magneto, you know?

Well, I mean, I think the important thing is that, like, look, what I say is not... is what I'd say. It's sort of a town square. I'm not gonna mitigate what I say 'cause that would be inhibiting freedom of speech. That doesn't mean you have to agree with what I say. Or does it mean if somebody says the total opposite that they won't be supported on Twitter, they are. The point is to have a divergent set of views. And free speech is only relevant if it's a speech by, if speech by someone you don't like says something you don't like, is that allowed? If so, you have free speech. Otherwise, you do not. And for those who would advocate censorship, I would say if you succeed in that, it's only a matter of time before the censorship gets to a non-year.

Well, I mean, I did clarify that some of my concerns about Soros are that he has funded a very large number of small but influential races around the country, especially with district district attorneys. And he funded, for example, the LA and San Francisco district attorney races. with Chespardine and the guy I always want to call him Gaston from Beauty and the Beast, but I think it's Gaston. Basically, he's caused a large number of DAs to be elected who are very easy on crime and will often refuse to prosecute.

Twitter is not quite there, but we're not like, when acquisition closed, I'd say it's analogous to being teleported to a plane that's plunging to the ground with its engines on fire and the controls don't work. So it's comforting, to say the least. We had to do some pretty heavy-handed cost-cutting to keep the company healthy, but at this point, we're trending towards, if we get lucky, we might be cash flow positive next month, but it remains to be seen.

That's roughly correct, yeah. I think there's definitely, we are going to start adding people to the company, and we have started adding some number of people to the company. But there's still a lot of change to happen. But I think 1,500 is probably a reasonable number.

Yeah, I think Twitter may be somewhat of an outlier in that there were a lot of people doing things that didn't seem to have a lot of value. I think that's true probably in most Silicon Valley companies. Maybe not to the degree to which it was at Twitter, but it's still, yeah. There's a potential for significant cuts, I think, at other companies without affecting their productivity, in fact, increasing their productivity. So, you know, in any given company there are people who help move things forward and people who sort of try to slam the brakes on. And Twitter was in a situation where you'd have a meeting of ten people, you know, and one person with an accelerator and nine with a set of brakes. So you didn't go very far. Right. And...

So now we're going home about releasing functionality even at a little bit of risk to site stability so long as it's not too serious. And I think at this point it's probably fair to say we've introduced more functionality in the last six months than Twitter has in the last six years.

- Well, outages are not unusual. Instagram recently had an outage, for example. It was reported on Twitter, ironically. So we've had outages, but not massive ones. And they've generally been brief and limited in scope.

Well, all's well that ends well. We'll see.

I think we're on the, hopefully, on the comeback arc.

Yeah. Yeah.

Well, I think it'll be very significant. So the advertising agencies at this point of all lifted their warnings on Twitter. So appreciate the fact that Group M, for example, removed the sort of their concern label over Twitter, which is a very big deal. And so I think at this point, I expect almost all advertisers to return. We've also done a lot more to make the advertising more relevant to users so that we show users things that they're more likely to be interested in buying. Sounds obvious, but...

Super obvious. - Just basic stuff like if you do a search on Twitter, previously the search banner ad did not take the search terms into account. Which is pretty insane. So just show a random ad. Whereas obviously, show an ad that is, you know,

Well, obviously it would be up to people to decide if they want it. It's like, do we make something that is useful enough that you want to use it more frequently? Great. That's our goal. So we're not going to do anything to stop people leaving the app or try to trap them in the app, but just provide enough compiling functionality that over time people's usage of the platform grows.

I think advertising will always play a role. At some point, say 10 years from now, it may not play the largest role, but it will play the largest role for at least a few years to come.

Answer.

I think this one.

I will at some point, yeah. Not sure when, but it'll be nice.

Well, we did make an announcement that Mexico would be our next location outside the U.S. and picked a site and everything. So there's that. And then we'll probably pick another location towards the end of this year.

Absolutely.

Well, I mean, I'm not advising anyone to buy crypto or bet the farm on Dogecoin or anything like that. Don't bet on Dogecoin. You might have been thinking so. Maybe you should, but let me advise you. That would be a have some noise. So Dogecoin is my sort of favorite cryptocurrency because it has the best humor and has dogs.

Well, I don't know, maybe, you know, it's like, Fair enough has a saying that the most ironic explanation is the most likely. And the most ironic outcome for currency would be that the thing that was made as a joke to make fun of cryptocurrencies, most ironic outcome would become that it becomes the global currency.

The US very much has the most advanced AI. So this is, you see like China's close behind, certainly, and has the resources to scale and to optimize. The biggest single advances in AI still come from the US and Europe. But All right, so it's hard to give an exact number of score. It's more like...

There is a gap. That gap looks like it's on the order of 12 months.

Yes.

It's hard to tell. I suspect it will narrow to some degree.

Well, I think there should be a significant third horse in the race here. We've got OpenAI and Microsoft, Google DeepMind, and probably there should be a third horse in the race. So there will be more on that soon.

To some degree. I don't want to jump the gun here on announcements, but OpenAI has a relationship with Microsoft that seems to work fairly well. So it's possible that XAI and Twitter and Tesla would have something similar.

- Yeah, I mean, I think there should be, I've been pushing hard for a long time. I met with a number of senior senators and people in Congress and the White House to advocate for AI regulation, starting with an insight committee that is formed of independent parties as well as perhaps participants from the leaders in industry.

And that oversight committee gains or should say that inside committee gains insight into what various companies are up to and to the degree that there's competitive dynamics there you can obviously you would um sequester board members who are perhaps have conflicts uh but anyway if you figure out some sort of regulatory board and uh and they start off gaining insight and then uh have proposed rule making um and then that you know we'll get comments that are owned by industry and uh and then hopefully we have some sort of over rules that improve safety just as we do with aircraft with the FAA and spacecraft and cars with NHTSA and food and drugs with the Food and Drug Administration.

Well, really, the key question is, will China cooperate with the West? That remains to be seen. But I would still advocate some degree of oversight. I mean, we have regulatory oversight of aircraft, for example, and yet the US is still very much doing great on the aircraft front. So it makes more aircraft than any other place. So just because you have FAA regulation doesn't mean that it's necessarily slowed down very much.

Well, there are a lot of AI startups. The thing that's becoming tricky is that in order, you really need three things to compete. You need talent, talented people. You need... a lot of compute, expensive compute, and you need access to data. So whoever's succeeding on those three will win. So now the cost of compute has gotten astronomical. So it's now, you know, sort of minimum ante, I would say, minimum would be $250 million of server hardware. Minimum. That's like just to...

To train a model of probably GPT-5 size, I wouldn't be surprised if they use at least 30,000, maybe 50,000 H100s, which are the latest GPUs, it's not quite the right word, but the latest technology from NVIDIA. and then you need to run inference as well. So, there's a lot of, the GFUs are at this point considerably harder to get than drugs. Actually, that's really not a high bar in San Francisco.

In terms of access to goods and services, I think AI will be ushering in an age of abundance. Assuming that we're in a benign AI scenario, I think the AI will be able to make goods and services very inexpensively. And so, in anything that is a product or a service where there's not artificial scarcity created, such as like, I want to live exactly in this neighborhood of houses. It's like, okay, well, there's only 100 houses there. So, that would still have scarcity or a unique artwork would have scarcity, but anything that does not have scarcity that we deliberately designed to be scarce will be plentiful for everyone in a benign scenario.

Well, there's a wide range of...

Well, I don't think the AI is going to try to destroy all humanity, but it might put us under strict controls. And there's a non-zero chance of it going terminator. It's not 0%, but it's... I think it's a small likelihood of annihilating humanity, but it's not zero. We want that probability to be as close to zero as possible. And then, like I said, the... of AI assuming control for the safety of all the humans and taking over all the computing systems and weapon systems of Earth and effectively being like some sort of uber nanny.

- If you say, like, you know, like, let's say you're, you know, a Miss World contestant, hypothetically.

And you say, what do you want? And it's, I want world peace. And it's like, okay, well, one way to achieve world peace is to take all the weapons away from the humans so they can no longer use them and to punish any humans that engage in extraterritorial activity.

Yes, that's what I mean by AI uses as a weapon. And the pen is mightier than the sword. So one of the first places we have to be careful of AI being used is in social media to manipulate public opinion. So the reason that Twitter is going to a primarily subscriber-based system is because it is dramatically harder to create... It's like... quote, 10,000 times harder to create an account that has a verified phone number from a credible carrier that has a credit card and that pays a small amount of money per month. And have those credit cards and phone numbers be highly distributed, not clustered, is incredibly difficult.

So whereas in the past, someone could create a million fake accounts for a penny apiece, and then manipulate, have something appear to be very much liked by the public when in fact it is or promoted and retweeted when in fact it is not, its popularity is not real, and essentially gain the system. So the bias towards a subscription-based verification I think is very powerful and that really you won't be able to trust any social media company that does not do this because it will simply be overrun with bots to such an extreme degree.

I think that's something we need to be on lookout for in a big way is to make sure that we're minimizing the impact of AI manipulation. We're certainly very much taking that seriously at x.twitter, you know, x.twitter. And I think we're putting in place all of the protections to minimize and certainly detect when we see large-scale manipulation of the system.

Yeah. There probably will be attempts to use AI to manipulate the public, and some of it will be successful. And if not this election, for sure the next one.

I think it's going to change a lot. Especially if you go further out into the future. I mean, there will be, everything will be automatic. I mean, there'll be household robots that you can fully talk to as though they're people that can help you around the house or be a companion or whatever the case may be. There will be humanoid robots throughout factories. And Ours will also be all automatic. And anything that we're intelligent, intelligence can be applied. Even modest intelligence will be automated. Say like, so if you say like 10, 20 years from now,

Well, a high bandwidth interface from Cortex to the sort of computing or AI tertiary layer, which already exists, you know, it's just that we don't have a high bandwidth connection. We've got our... Limbic system, which is our sort of foundational element, that's sort of our instincts and desires and whatnot. Then our cortex on top of that, which is a thinking part of our brain. And then we have a tertiary digital layer, which is currently in the form of our phones and computers and laptops and whatnot and all the applications.

And the constraint on better communication A better merging or-- the constraint on having human interests and machine interests be aligned is the bandwidth, especially the output. So if you say like, at what speed can you output to a computer, it's using voice or your fingers, which move very slowly. So you're talking about maybe 10 bits per second or some fairly small data rate. So with the neural link, you can increase that by a million probably.

- It's up, yeah. I mean, this is obviously in a relatively benign scenario because there's a question of not just, let's say it's a benign scenario. How do we even appreciate or understand what the computer's doing? How do we go along for the ride? And if we have a brain machine interface that's a million times faster, then we're more like, we'll go along for the ride a lot better than if we're interfacing with a phone using two slow-moving meat sticks.

Well, I think it's important to have a broad range of understanding in many different subjects. So I think general knowledge is important. So you at least have some clue of what you don't know in different areas. And then go deep in areas where your child has a strong interest and ability. So finding that overlap of where is my child interested in this and has some ability to be successful, then finding, if you can find that Venn diagram overlap, then obviously encouraging that is a good thing. And we are obviously headed to a high-tech world, so some basic understanding of computers and software and artificial intelligence is probably a good idea.

I mean, it depends on what time frame we're talking about here. So if you say like over 20, 30 year time frame, I think things will be transformed beyond belief. You probably won't recognize society in 30 years. I do think we're fairly close. You asked me about artificial general intelligence. I think we're perhaps only three years, maybe six years away from it. This decade. So in fact, arguably we are on the event horizon of the black hole that is artificial super intelligence.

Well, there is fundamentally an issue that's coming to a head with Taiwan. And it's unclear when exactly push will come to shove, but it seems that there's a good chance push will come to shove. It's trending in that direction. I dread to think what would happen, the results would be for the global economy would be absolutely catastrophic. But China has been very clear about its goals on China and sort of including Taiwan as part of China. So one does not need to read between the lines. One can simply read the lines. They are very clear. And they're not getting it.

Well, there's even more that comes out of China. So China does a lot, so much of the world's heavy lifting on manufacturing, especially if the manufacturing is, you know, simply hard work and not particularly glamorous. China just does an immense amount of hard work that people, most people have no idea how much hard work they do. So, yeah. being cut off from Taiwan was much less of a concern than being cut off from China. Now China would reciprocally suffer, of course. Because I would say that the economy of, the economies of China and Taiwan are, they're like conjoint twins with the Western economy, with the rest of the world.

So China and the rest of the world being conjoint twins from an economic standpoint will mean that the separation is gonna be dire indeed.

That happens. I hope it does not happen. So, and there's no easy solution here, but if there's any path to a diplomatic solution, we should really take that seriously.

Thanks to the office. So I will certainly consider England for a future location of a gigafactory.

We're not currently looking at new locations, but we will towards the end of this year.

Well, I think we already have a giant fusion reactor in the sky called the Sun that shows up every day. So, which always sounds like, if you want to know what standing in front of a fusion reactor feels like, just go out, go and stand in front of the Sun. You know, just walk outside. That's what a giant fusion reactor feels like, because that's what the Sun is. It converts about four and a half million tons of four and a half million tons of mass to energy every second. and requires no maintenance. It's amazing. You don't have to refuel it, you don't have to maintain it, it's just there. So my recommendation for fusion is solar power and batteries. And we can easily power all of Earth just with photovoltaics and batteries. I mean, not easily, but there's just a very clear path to do so.

And no miracles required, just work. I'm also an advocate of wind and of nuclear fission, geothermal, hydro, and whatnot.

I guess I just talk to my team, read the news, assess the opinion on Twitter, I suppose. There's a very deep analysis you can get on Twitter from people that are world experts on a particular subject. I don't know, I think we just, we try to prepare for the worst, hope for the best, and make sure we have factories in geographically diversified regions of the world where the supply chain is as localized as possible. This is important also for force majeure situations.

So if there are earthquakes, wildfires, riots, revolutions, ice storms, heat waves, you name it. I think I've seen it all at this point. So you want to have a supply chain that does not inherit force majeure from all of Earth. Because something bad is going to happen somewhere. It's a big planet. So that's why I think it's important to have localized supply chains with factories in many geographies.

Well, yeah, I mean, I think it's very telling if you look at the birth rates, which are just publicly available. You can look at, say, the birth rate last year for every country available online, and you can look at the trend in birth rates, and it's just very clear that the trend has been strongly downward and that we've recently hit all-time lows. So, You think if you know during COVID, you know, what else you got to do you might as well have a kid. Didn't happen actually we had a big drop in birth rate during during COVID. Increase in divorces too since a lot of time with their significant other. So I think generally So simply changing people's mind about the goodness of having kids. It's like very important to have kids in order to continue civilization.

And I think sometimes it's viewed as, you know, kids are viewed as an imposition on the world. I don't think that's the case at all, or that people sometimes think there are too many people in the world. That's certainly not the case. You can fit all of the humans on earth on one floor in the city of New York. It would be uncomfortable, but just to give you a sense of the cross-sectional area of Earth that is human is very tiny. It just seems big if you're in a big city. But for the vast majority of the Earth, if you were given a task from a plane of dropping a bowling ball and you have to hit someone, you'd miss. I almost never hit anyone. So... The point is that you very rarely go over a person in an aircraft. You fly from LA to New York, the vast areas of land with no one at all.

So anyway, I think we want to just generally have it be socially encouraged to have kids. I think certainly companies need to support employees that have kids. I think in terms of government incentives, there should be some, I think, tax breaks for having kids, you know, or make it financially not burdensome to have children. And it's worth bearing in mind, like, autonomy aside, if someone doesn't have kids, what you're actually asking is that someone else's kids take care of you when you're old. And that doesn't seem, like, quite right, you know. because that's what they'll be forced to do, absent automation, is that someone else's kids will have to take care of you when you're old.

So I think, anyway, one way or another, we need to solve this birthright issue or civilization will go into nothing.

I think there will be robot nannies that are very confident. So that will help.

No one should put this many hours into work. This is not good. People should not work this hard. They should not do this. This is very painful. Painful in what sense? It hurts my brain and my heart. Particularly if you're starting a company you need to work super hard. So what does super hard mean? Well, when my brother and I were starting our first company, instead of getting an apartment we just rented a small office and we slept on the couch. we showered at the YMCA and We're so hot up. We had just one computer. So the the website was up during the day And I was coding at night seven days a week all the time and I Sort of briefly had a girlfriend in that period and in order to be with me she have to sleep in the office.

So I Work hard like I mean, every waking hour, that's the thing I would say, particularly if you're starting a company. And I mean, if you do simple math, say like, okay, if somebody else is working 50 hours and you're working 100, you'll get twice as much done in the course of a year as the other company. Just work like hell. I mean, you just have to put in, you know, 80 hour, 80 to 100 hour work. every week. That's a lot of work. All those things improve the odds of success. If other people are putting in 40-hour work weeks and you're putting in 100-hour work weeks, then even if you're doing the same thing, you know that in one year you will achieve what they achieve. You will achieve in four months what it takes them a year to achieve. What was your biggest failure and how did it change you?

We almost did die at SpaceX actually. So I budgeted for three flights. I mean, technically I did have a plan where I had the money from PayPal. I had like about 180 million from PayPal. I thought, you know, I'll allocate half of that to SpaceX and Tesla and SolarCity and that should be fine. I'll have 90 million, like just lots, you know. But then what happened is things cost more and took longer than I thought. So I had a choice of either put the rest of the money in or the companies are going to die. And so I ended up putting all the money in and borrowing money for rent from friends. 2008 was brutal. Yeah, 2008 we had the third consecutive failure of the Falcon rocket for SpaceX. Tesla almost went bankrupt.

We closed our financing round 6 p.m. Christmas Eve 2008. It was the last hour of the last day that it was possible. We would have gone bankrupt two days after Christmas otherwise. SpaceX is alive by the skin of its teeth, so is Tesla. If things had just gone a little bit the other way, both companies would be dead. And I had, like one of the most difficult choices I've ever faced in life was in 2008. And I think I had maybe 30 million dollars left, 30 or 40 million dollars left in 2008. I had two choices. I could put it all into one company and then the other company would definitely die. Or split it between the two companies. But if I split it between the two companies, then both might die.

When you put your blood, sweat and tears into creating something, building something, it's like a child. And so it's like, which one am I going to let one starve to death? I couldn't bring myself to do it, so I split the money between the two. Fortunately, thank goodness, they both came through. Tesla really faced a severe threat of death due to the Model 3 production ramp. Essentially, the company was bleeding money like crazy. If we didn't solve these problems in a very short period of time, we would die. And it was extremely difficult to solve them.

We're here within single digit weeks.

I work seven days a week, sleeping in the factory. I worked in the paint shop, general assembly, body shop.

Absolutely. I think failure is bad. I don't think it's good. important enough, then you do it even though the risk of failure is high.

I didn't think it would be easy. Like I said, I thought they would probably fail. But you know, like creating a company is almost like having a child. So it's sort of like, how do you say your child should not have food?

Take care of it.

Yeah. Can we just break for a second? Sure, sure, sure.

- Of course you have.

Yeah, sure hope it was worth it. -Sure hope so. -Fund me. Sure hope it was worth it.

Well, there's a ton of failures along the way, that's for sure. As I said before, for SpaceX, the first three launches failed. And we were just barely able to scrape together enough parts and money to do the fourth launch. If that fourth launch had failed, we would have been dead. So, multiple failures along the way. I tried very hard to get the right expertise in for SpaceX. I tried hard to find a great chief engineer for the rocket, but the good chief engineers wouldn't join, and the bad ones, well, there was no point in hiring them. So I ended up being chief engineer of the rocket. So if I could have found somebody better, then we would have maybe had less than three failures.

Never.

I don't ever give up. I mean, I'd have to be dead or completely incapacitated.

I was very sad to see that because those guys are... Those guys are heroes of mine, so it's really tough. I wish they would come and visit and see the hardware they were doing here. And I think that would change their mind.

Yeah.

It's difficult.

So they're hoping they would. Something that can be helpful is fatalism, to some degree. If you just accept the probabilities. that diminishes fear. So, when starting SpaceX, I thought the odds of success were less than 10%. And I just accepted that actually, probably, I would just lose everything. But that maybe we'd make some progress if we could just move the ball forward, even if we died, maybe some other company could pick up the baton and keep moving it forward, so that we'd still do some good. Yeah, same with Tesla. I thought the odds of a car company succeeding were extremely low. In creating these companies, we thought that we would be successful. I thought that the most likely outcome was failure. But it was still worth doing, even though the odds of success were low.

In fact, even for SpaceX, originally what I started doing was not creating a rocket company, but actually was going to do a small mission to Mars, which was just a philanthropic mission where you would send a small greenhouse with seeds and dehydrated gel. upon landing hydrate the gel and you'd have this cool picture of green plants on a red background. And the public tends to respond to precedence and superlatives. So this would be the first life on Mars, the furthest that life's ever traveled. And you'd have this great money shot of green plants on a red background. So, I thought that would get people's attention. But the expectation for that was no return. I thought we wouldn't get any, you know, just spend the money on that and it wouldn't happen. If you're creating a company or if you're joining a company, the most important thing is to... is to attract great people.

So either you join a group that's amazing, that you really respect, or if you're building a company, you've got to gather great people. I mean, all a company is is a group of people that have gathered together to create a product or service. And so depending upon how talented and hardworking that group is, and the degree to which they are focused cohesively in a good direction, that will determine the success of the company. So do everything you can to gather great people if you're creating a company. Then I'd say focus on signal over noise. A lot of companies get confused. They spend money on things that don't actually make the product better. So, for example, at Tesla, we've never spent any money on advertising. We put all of the money into R&D and manufacturing and design to try to make the car as good as possible.

And I think that's the way to go. So for any given company, just keep thinking about are these efforts that people are expending, are they resulting in a better product or service? And if they're not, stop those efforts. Starting a business, I'd say number one is have a high pain threshold. That's it. There's a friend of mine who's got a good saying which is that starting a company is like eating glass and staring into the abyss. Okay, that's generally what happens because when you first start a company, there's lots of optimism and things are great. So happiness at first is high. encounter all sorts of issues and happiness will steadily decline and then you'll go through a whole world of hurt.

And then eventually, if you succeed, and in most cases you will not succeed, and Tesla almost didn't succeed, came very close to failure. Then if you succeed, then after a long time you will finally get back to happiness. You've got to make sure that whatever you're doing is a great product or service. It has to be really great. And I go back to what I was saying earlier where If you're a new company, I mean unless it's like some new industry or new market that if it's an untapped market or then then you have more ability to... The standard is lower for your product service, but if you're entering anything where there's an existing marketplace against large entrenched competitors, then your product or service needs to be much better than theirs.

It can't be a little bit better because then you put yourself and the shoes of the consumer and they say, why would you buy it as a consumer? You're always going to buy the trusted brand unless there's a big difference. So a lot of times, you know, come up with something which is only slightly better. And it can't just be slightly better, it's got to be a lot better. A well thought out critique of whatever you're doing is as valuable as gold. And you should seek that from everyone you can, but particularly your friends. Usually your friends know what's wrong, but they don't want to tell you because they don't want to hurt you. It doesn't mean your friends are right, but very often they are right. And you at least want to listen very carefully to what they say.

And to everyone, if you're looking for basically You should take the approach that you're wrong, that you, the entrepreneur, are wrong. Your goal is to be less wrong. Advice I'd give to people starting companies, entrepreneurs in general, is really focus on making a product that your customers love. It's so rare that you can buy a product and you love the product when you when you bought it. There are very few things that fit into that category. If you can come up with something like that, your business will be successful for sure. I think really an obsessive nature with respect to the quality of the product is very important. So being obsessive compulsive is a good thing in this context. uh...

really really liking what you do it whatever area that you get into given that you even if you if you're the best the best as always a chance of failure i think it's important that you really like what are you doing if you don't like it what this people you know I'd say and also if you like what you do and you think about it even when you're not working I mean it'll just it's something that your mind is drawn to and if you don't like it you just really can't make it work I think. When I was young I didn't really know what I was going to do when I got older people kept asking me and but then eventually I thought the idea of inventing things would be really cool. And the reason I thought that was because I read a quote from Arthur C. Clarke which said that a sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.

And that's really true. If you go back, say, 300 years, the things that we take a sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic. And that's really true. Being able to see over long distances, being able to communicate, being able to see over long distances, being able to communicate, having effectively with the internet in times past. In fact, I think it actually goes beyond that because there are many things that we take for granted today that weren't even imagined in times past. They weren't even in the realm of magic. So it actually goes beyond that.

So I thought, well, if I can do some of those things basically if I can advance technology then that that's like magic and that would be really cool and the the I was at sort of a slight existential crisis because I was trying to figure out what does it all mean? Like what's the purpose of things? And I came to the conclusion that if we can advance the knowledge of the world, if we can do things that expand the scope and scale of consciousness, then we're better able to ask the right questions and become more enlightened and that's really the only way forward.

So So I studied physics and business because I figured in order to do a lot of these things you need to know how the universe works and you need to know how the economy works and you also need to be able to bring a lot of people together to work with you to create something because it's very difficult to do something as an individual if it's a significant technology. I originally came out to California to try to figure out how to improve the energy density of electric vehicles. Basically to try to figure out if there was an advanced capacitor that could serve as an alternative to batteries. And that was in '95.

That's also when the internet started to happen and I thought well I can either pursue this technology where success may not be one of the possible outcomes, which is always tricky, or participate in the internet and be part of it. And I think maybe it's helpful to say one of the things that was important then in the creation of PayPal was kind of how it started because initially, the initial thought with PayPal was to create an agglomeration of financial services. So if you have one place where all your financial services needs would be seamlessly integrated and work smoothly. And then we had a little feature which was to do email payments. And whenever we'd show the system off to someone, we'd show the hard part which was the the agglomeration of financial services which was quite difficult to put together.

Nobody was interested. Then we'd show people email payments which was actually quite easy and everybody was interested. So we focused on email payments and really tried to make that work and that's what really got things to take off. But if we hadn't responded to what people said, then we probably would not have been successful. So it's important to look for things like that and focus on them when you see them and correct your prior assumptions. Going from PayPal, I thought, well, what are some of the other problems that are likely to most affect the future of humanity? It really wasn't from the perspective of what's the rank ordered best way to make money, which is okay, but it was really what I think is going to most affect the future of humanity.

So I think the biggest terrestrial problem we've got is sustainable energy, but the production and consumption of energy in a sustainable manner. If we don't solve that this century, we're in deep trouble. And then the other one being the extension of life beyond Earth to make life multi-planetary. When I started SpaceX, initially I thought that there's no way one could possibly start a rocket company. I wasn't that crazy. But then I thought, well, what is a way to increase NASA's budget? That was actually my initial goal. So obviously the financial outcome from such a mission would probably be zero. So anything better than that was on the upside. So I actually went to Russia three times to look at buying a refurbished ICBM.

And I can tell you it was very weird going there in late 2001, 2002, going to the Russian rocket forces and saying, I'd like to buy two of your biggest rockets. But you can keep the nuke. After making several trips to Russia, I came to the conclusion that that actually my initial impression was wrong about, because my initial thought was, well, that there's not enough will to explore and expand beyond Earth and have a Mars base and that kind of thing. But I came to the conclusion that that was wrong. In fact, there's plenty of will, particularly in the United States, because the United States is a nation of explorers, of people who came here from other parts of the world. The United States is really a distillation of the spirit of human exploration. So after my third trip, I said, OK, what we really need to do here is try to solve the space transport problem.

and started SpaceX. And this was against the advice of pretty much everyone I talked to. One friend made me sit down and watch a bunch of videos of rockets blowing up. Let me tell you, he wasn't far wrong. It was tough going there in the beginning because I'd never built anything physical. I mean, I'd built like little model rockets as a kid and that kind of thing, but I never had a company that built anything physical. So I had to figure out how to do all these things and bring together the right team of people. We did all that and then failed three times. It was tough going. Because the thing about a rocket is that the passing grade is 100%. You don't get to actually test the rocket in the real environment that it's going to be in. So I think the best analogy for rocket engineering is if you want to create a really complicated bit of software, You can't run the software as an integrated whole and you can't run it on the computer it's intended to run on.

But the first time you put it all together and run it on that computer it must run with no bugs. The first launch I was picking up bits of rocket near the launch site, it was a bit sad. We learned with each successive flight and were able to eventually with the fourth flight in 2008 reach orbit. And that was also with the last bit of money that we had. So we got the Falcon 1 to orbit and then began to scale that up to the Falcon 9, which is about an order of magnitude more thrust. It's around a million pounds of thrust. And we managed to get that to orbit and then developed a Dragon spacecraft, which recently was able to darken and return to Earth from the space station. So it's a huge relief. I still can't quite believe it actually happened. But there's a lot more that must happen beyond this in order for humanity to become a space-faring civilization, ultimately a multi-planet species.

And that's something I think is vitally important and I hope that some of you will participate in that, either at SpaceX or at other companies, because it's just really one of the most important things for the preservation and extension of consciousness. It's worth noting, as I'm sure people are aware, that the Earth has been around for four billion years and civilization, at least in terms of having writing, has been around for 10,000 years and that's being generous. So it's really somewhat of a tenuous existence that civilization and consciousness as we know has been on Earth. And I think, I'm actually fairly optimistic about the future of Earth, so I don't want to, I don't want people to have the wrong impression that I think we're all about to die. I think things will most likely be okay for a long time on Earth.

But not for sure, but most likely. But even if it's sort of 99 likely, a 1 chance is still worth spending a fair bit of effort to ensure that we have backed up the biosphere, planetary redundancy, if you will. And so I think it's really quite important. And in order to do that, there's a breakthrough that needs to occur, which is to create a rapidly and completely reusable transport system to Mars, which is one of those things that's right on the borderline of impossible. But that's sort of the thing that we're going to try to achieve there with SpaceX. When I was a kid I was wondering kind of what's the meaning of life? Like why are we here? What's it all about?

And I came to the conclusion that what really matters is trying to understand the right questions to ask. the more that we can increase the scope and scale of human consciousness, the better we are able to ask these questions. So I think that there are certain things that are necessary to ensure that the future is good. And some of those things are in the long term, having long term sustainable transport and sustainable energy generation. And to be a space-bearing civilization and for humanity to be out there among the stars and be a multi-planetary species.

I think being a multi-planetary species and being out there among the stars is important for the long-term survival of humanity and that's one reason, kind of like life insurance for life collectively, life as we know it. But then the part that I find personally most motivating is that it creates a sense of adventure and it makes people excited about the future. If you consider two futures, one where we are forever confined to Earth until eventually something terrible happens, or another future where we are out there on many planets, maybe even going beyond the solar system, I think that second version is incredibly exciting and inspiring. And there need to be reasons to get up in the morning. You know, life can't just be about solving problems. Otherwise, what's the point?

It's got to be things that people find inspiring and make life worth living.

- 70%. We've recently made a number of breakthroughs that I'm just really fired up about. - And when does that happen? In our lifetimes? - Yeah, yeah. I'm talking about moving there. So it's like, you get the price per ticket maybe around a couple hundred thousand dollars.

No. Your probability of dying on Mars is much higher than Earth. Really, the app for going to Mars would be like Shackleton's app for going to the Antarctic. It's going to be hard. There's a good chance of death. Going in a little can through deep space. You might land successfully. Once you land successfully, there will be a map. You'll be working nonstop to build the base. So you don't have much time for leisure. And once you get there, even after doing all this, this is a very harsh environment. So there's a good chance you die there. We think you can come back, but we're not sure. Now, does that sound like an escape hatch for rich people?

You know, there's lots of people that climb mountains. Why do they climb mountains? Because people die on Mount Everest all the time. They like doing it for the challenge. I think that the probable outcome for civilization on Earth is quite good for a long time. But I still think that we should try to extend life beyond Earth and have a... And the thing to do is to establish a base on Mars and try to make that a self-sustaining base as soon as possible. So I don't expect that SpaceX is going to do that sort of single-handedly, but I think we're going to try to advance the technology of space travel to the point where we can at least send some number of people to Mars, which is not currently possible. On the Tesla front, the goal with Tesla was really to try to show what electric cars can do, because people had the wrong impression.

We had to change people's perception of an electric vehicle, because they used to think of it as something that was slow and ugly and had low range. kind of like a golf cart. So that's why we created the Tesla Roadster to show that you can be fast, attractive, and long range. And it's amazing how even though you can show that something works on paper and the calculations are very clear, until you actually have the physical object and they can drive it, it doesn't really sink in for people. So that I think is something worth noting. If you're going to create a company, the first thing you should try to do is create a working prototype. Everything looks great on PowerPoint. You can make anything work on PowerPoint. But if you have an actual demonstration article, even if it's in primitive form, that's much, much more effective for convincing people.

Private enterprise.

One of the biggest mistakes people generally make, and I'm guilty of it too, is wishful thinking. You know, like, you want something to be true even if it isn't true. And so you ignore the things that... You ignore the real truth because of what you want to be true. This is a very difficult trap to avoid. And like I said, it's certainly one that I find myself having problems with. But if you just take that approach of you're always to some degree wrong and your goal is to be less wrong. and solicit critical feedback, particularly from friends. Friends, if somebody loves you, they want the best for you. They don't want to tell you the bad things. So you have to ask them, you know, and say, Really, I really do want to know.

Well, first of all, I think if somebody is doing something that is useful to the rest of society, I think that's a good thing. Like, it doesn't have to change the world. Like, you know, if you're doing something that has high value to people, and frankly, even if it's something, if it's like just a little game or, you know, some improvement in photo sharing or something. If it has a small amount of good for a large number of people, I think that's fine. Stuff doesn't need to be changed the world just to be good. But in terms of things that I think are most likely to affect the future of humanity, I think AI is probably the single biggest item in the near term that's likely to affect It's very important that we have the advent of AI in a good way.

That is something that if you could look into the crystal ball and see the future, you would like that outcome. Because it is something that could go wrong, as we've talked about many times. And so we really need to make sure it goes right. That's, I think AI, working on AI and making sure it's a great future. That's the most important thing I think right now. The most pressing item. Then obviously anything to do with genetics. If you can actually solve genetic diseases, if you can prevent dementia, Alzheimer's or something like that, with genetic reprogramming, that would be wonderful. So I think genetics It might be the sort of second most important item.

I think having a high bandwidth interface to the brain, like we're currently bandwidth limited. We have a digital tertiary self in the form of our email capabilities, our computers, phones, applications. We're effectively superhuman, but we're extremely bandwidth constrained in that interface between the cortex and your that the tertiary digital form of yourself and helping solve that bandwidth constraint would be, I think, very important for the future as well.

Well, I think first of all I should say that I do not expect to be involved in all these things. So the five things that I thought about at the time in college, so quite a long time ago, 25 years ago, you know, making life multi-planetary, accelerating the transition to sustainable energy, the internet, broadly speaking, genetics and AI. I didn't expect to be involved in all of those things. Actually, at the time in college I sort of thought helping with electrification of cars was how I would start out. And that's actually what I worked on as an intern was advanced ultracapacitors to see if there would be a breakthrough relative to batteries for energy storage in cars.

When I came out to go to Stanford, that's what I was going to be doing my grad studies on, was working on advanced energy storage technologies for electric cars. And then I put that on hold to start an internet company in '95 because there does seem to be a time for particular technologies. when they're at a steep point in the inflection curve. And I didn't want to do a PhD at Stanford and watch it all happen. And I wasn't entirely certain that the technology I'd be working on would actually succeed. You can get a doctrine on many things that ultimately do not have a practical bearing on the world. And I really was just trying to be useful. That's the optimization. It's like, what can I do that would actually be useful?

Whatever this thing is that you're trying to create, what would be the utility delta compared to the current state of the art times how many people it would affect? So that's why I think having something that makes a big difference but affects a sort of small to moderate number of people is great, as is something that makes even a small difference but affects a vast number of people.

Very crazy, for sure. Yeah, well, I'm not sure I have a saying that. But I kind of agree. I agreed with them that it was quite crazy. Crazy if the objective was to achieve the best risk adjusted return, starting a company is insane. But that was not my objective. I had simply come to the conclusion that if something didn't happen to improve rocket technology, we'd be stuck on Earth forever. And the big aerospace companies had just had no interest in radical innovation. All they wanted to do was try to make their old technology slightly better every year. And in fact, sometimes it would actually get worse. And particularly in rockets, it's pretty bad. In '69, we were able to go to the moon with the Saturn V, and then the space shuttle could only take people to low-Earth orbit, and then the space shuttle retired. I mean, that trend is basically trends to zero.

People sometimes think technology just automatically gets better every year, but it actually doesn't. It only gets better if smart people work like crazy to make it better. That's how any technology actually gets better. And by itself, technology, if people don't work on it, actually will decline. I mean, you can look at the history of civilizations, many civilizations, and look at, say, ancient Egypt, where they were able to build these incredible pyramids, and then they basically forgot how to build pyramids. And then even hieroglyphics, they forgot how to read hieroglyphics. Or you look at Rome and how they were able to build these incredible roadways and aqueducts and indoor plumbing and they forgot how to do all of those things. And there are many such examples in history. So I think you should always bear in mind Entropy is not on your side.

You may have heard me say that it's good to think in terms of the physics approach of first principles, which is rather than reasoning by analogy, you boil things down to the most fundamental truths you can imagine and you reason up from there. And this is a good way to figure out if something really makes sense or if it's just what everybody else is doing. It's hard to think that way, you can't think that way about everything, it takes a lot of effort. But if you're trying to do something new, it's the best way to think. And that framework was developed by physicists to figure out counterintuitive things, like quantum mechanics. So it's really a powerful method.

Well, first of all, I'd say I actually think I feel fear quite strongly. So it's not as though I just have the absence of fear. I feel it quite strongly. But there are times when something is important enough, you believe in it enough, that you do it in spite of the fear. People should think, well, I feel fear about this and therefore I shouldn't do it. It's normal to feel fear. Like you'd have to do something mentally wrong if you didn't feel fear.

What's your advice for them? I think that probably they shouldn't want to be. You? I think it sounds better than it is. Yeah, it's not as much fun being me as you'd think. You don't think so? It could be worse for sure. But I'm not sure I want to be me.

I think when I was, I don't know, five or six or something. I thought I was insane. strange because it was clear that other people do not their mind wasn't exploding with ideas it was like hmm I'm strange I don't think I don't think you'd necessarily want to be me people would like it that much it's very hard to turn it off it's like a never-ending explosion all the time.

Well, oddly enough, I actually think they're pretty good. At this point, I am certain there is a way. I'm certain that success is one of the possible outcomes for establishing a self-sustaining Mars colony, in fact, a growing Mars colony. I'm certain that that is possible. Whereas until maybe a few years ago, I was not sure that success was even one of the possible outcomes. It's a meaningful number of people going to Mars. I think this is... potentially something that can be accomplished in about 10 years, maybe sooner, maybe 9 years. I need to make sure that SpaceX doesn't die between now and then and that I don't die or if I do die that someone takes over who will continue that.

Yeah, exactly. The best of the available alternatives that I can come up with and maybe somebody else can come up with a better approach or better outcome is that we achieve democratization of AI technology, meaning that no one company or small set of individuals has control over advanced AI technology. I think that that's very dangerous. It could also get stolen by somebody bad, you know, like some evil dictator of a country could send their intelligence agency to go steal it and gain control. It just becomes a very unstable situation, I think, if you've got any incredibly powerful AI. You just don't know who's going to control that. So it's not as though I think that the risk is that the AI would develop a will of its own right off the bat. I think the concern is that someone may use it in a way that is bad.

And even if they weren't going to use it in a way that's bad, that somebody could take it from them and use it in a way that's bad. That I think is quite a big danger. So I think we must have democratization of AI technology. and make it widely available. And that's the reason that obviously the rest of the team created OpenAI, was to help with the democracy, help spread out AI technology so it doesn't get concentrated in the hands of a few. But then of course that needs to be combined with solving the high bandwidth interface to the cortex. Humans are so slow. Humans are so slow. Yes, exactly. But we already have a situation in our brain where we've got the cortex and limbic system. And the limbic system is kind of the primitive brain. It's kind of like your instincts and whatnot.

then the cortex is the thinking upper part of the brain. Those two seem to work together quite well. Occasionally your cortex and limbic system may disagree. Generally works pretty well and it's like rare to find someone who, I've not found someone who wishes to either get rid of their cortex or get rid of their limbic system. So I think if we can effectively merge with AI by improving that the neural link between your cortex and the digital extension yourself which already like I said already exists just has a bandwidth issue and then then effectively you become an an AI human symbiote and if that then is widespread with anyone who wants it can have it then we solve the control problem as well.

We don't have to worry about some sort of evil dictator AI because kind of we are the AI collectively. That seems like the best outcome I can think of. I think we've got a really talented group at OpenAI. Yeah, really really talented team and they're working hard OpenAI is structured as a 501 nonprofit, but many nonprofits do not have a sense of urgency. It's fine, they don't have to have a sense of urgency, but OpenAI does. I think people really believe in the mission. I think it's important. It's about minimizing the risk of existential harm in the future. And so I think it's going well. I'm pretty impressed with what people are doing in the talent level. And obviously we're always looking for great people to join.

When I interview somebody, I really just ask them to tell me the story of their career and what they, you know, what are some of the tougher problems that they dealt with, how they dealt with those, how they made decisions at key transition points. And usually that's enough for me to get a very good gut feel about someone. And what I'm really looking for is evidence of exceptional ability. So, did they face really difficult problems and overcome them? And then of course you want to make sure that if there was some significant accomplishment, were they really responsible or was somebody else more responsible? And usually the person who's had to struggle with the problem, they really understand it and they don't forget. you know, if it was very difficult. So you can ask them detailed, very detailed questions about it and they will know the answer.

Whereas the person who was not truly responsible for that accomplishment will not know the details. There's no need even to have a college degree. at all, or even high school.  i mean, if somebody graduated from a great university, that may be an indication that they will be capable of great things, but it's not necessarily the case.  you know, if you look at, say, people like Bill Gates or larry ellison, steve jobs, these guys didn't graduate from college.  but if you had a chance to hire them, of course, that would be... So, you know, just looking for evidence of exceptional ability and if there's a track record of exceptional achievement then it's likely that that will continue into the future.

Well, I think the massive thing that can be done is to make sure your incentive structure is such that innovation is rewarded and lack of innovation is punished. They've got to be a carrot and a stick. So if somebody is innovating doing making good progress then they should be promoted sooner and if somebody is completely failing to innovate not every role requires innovation but if they're in a role where innovation is should be happening and it's not happening then they should either not be promoted or exited and let me tell you you'll get promote you'll get you'll get innovation real fast.

When trying different things, you've got to have some acceptance of failure. Failure must be an option. If failure is not an option, it's going to result in extremely conservative choices and you may get something even worse than lack of innovation. Things may go backwards. What you really want is, you want reward and punishment to be proportionate to the actions that you seek. So if what you're seeking is innovation, then you should reward success and innovation. And only there should be minor consequences for lack of minor consequences for trying and failing. There should be minor significant rewards for trying and succeeding. minor consequences for trying and not succeeding and major negative consequences for not trying.

If you have that incentive structure, you will get innovation like you can't believe. The purpose of Neuralink, what's our goal? Our goal is to solve important spine and brain problems with a seamlessly implanted device. So you want to have a device that you can basically put in your head and feel and look totally normal, but it solves some important problem in your brain or spine. So going into the Neuralink Octecture, what we've done over the past year is dramatically simplify the device. So about a year ago, we had a device which had multiple parts including a piece that had to sort of sit behind your ear and it was it was it was complex and you and You wouldn't still look totally normal. You'd have a thing behind your ear.

So We've simplified this to simply something that is About the size of a large coin and it goes inner skull replaces a piece of skull and the wires then connect within a few centimeters or about an inch away from the device. And this is sort of what it looks like. This is that little device. I mean frankly to sort of simplify this, what we're, I mean it's more complicated than this, but it's in a lot of ways it's kind of like a Fitbit in your skull with tiny wires. Our current prototype version 0.9 has about a thousand channels, so that's about a hundred times better than the next best consumer device that's available. And it's a 23 millimeters by 8 millimeters.

It actually fits quite nicely in your skull. Your skull is about 10 millimeters thick. So it fits, it goes flush with your skull, it's invisible and all you can see afterwards is this tiny scar and if it's under your hair you can't see it at all. In fact I could have a Neuralink right now and you wouldn't know. It's also inductively charged so it's charged in the same way that you charge a smartwatch or a phone. And so you can use it all day, charge it at night and have full functionality. So you would really It would be completely seamless and yeah, no wires. In terms of getting a link, you need to have the device a great device and you also need to have a great robot that puts in the electrodes and does the surgery. So you want the surgery to be as automated as possible and the only way you can achieve the level of precision that's needed is with an advanced robot.

The link procedure, the installation of a link, done in under an hour. So you can basically go in in the morning and leave the hospital in the afternoon. And it can be done without general anesthesia. So this is our surgical robot and we actually ultimately want this robot to do essentially the entire surgery. So everything from incision, removing the skull, inserting the electrodes, placing the device, and then closing things up and having you ready to leave. So we want to have a fully automated system. How do you spend your days now? Like what do you allocate most of your time to? My time is mostly split Well, it's between SpaceX and Tesla and of course I try to spend part of every week at OpenAI.

So I spend most, I spend basically half a day at OpenAI most weeks and then and then I have some opening stuff that happens during the week. I think a lot of people think I must spend a lot of time with media or on businessy things, but actually almost all my time, like 80 of it is spent on engineering and design. Engineering and design, so it's developing next generation product, that's 80 of it. I think a lot of people think I'm kind of a business person or something, which is fine, like business is fine, but like I, but really it's, You know, it was like at SpaceX, Gwynne Shotwell is chief operating officer.  she kind of manages legal, finance, sales, and kind of general business activity.

and then my time is almost entirely with the engineering team working on improving the Falcon 9 and the Dragon spacecraft and developing the mars colonial architecture.  and then at Tesla, it's working on the Model 3 and some in the design studio. half a day a week dealing with aesthetics and look and feel things and then most of the rest of the week is just going through engineering of the car itself as well as engineering of the factory because the biggest epiphany I've had is that what really matters is the machine that builds the machine, the factory and that is at least two orders of magnitude harder than the vehicle itself.

Humanity really is not evolved to think of existential threats in general. We're evolved to think about things that are very close to us near term, to be upset with other humans and not really to think about things that could destroy humanity as a whole. But then in recent decades, just really in the last century, we had nuclear bombs, which could potentially destroy civilization, obviously. We have AI, which could destroy civilization. We have global warming, which could destroy civilization, or at least severely disrupt civilization.

You know, it would be something the same way that humans destroyed the habitat of primates. I mean, it wouldn't necessarily be destroyed, but we might be relegated to a small corner of the world. When Homo sapiens became much smarter than other primates, it pushed all the other ones into small habitats.

Swarm of assassin drones for very little money by just taking the face ID chip that's used in cell phones and having a small explosive charge and a standard drone and have them just do a grid sweep of the building until they find the person they're looking for, ram into them and explode. You can do that right now. No new technology is needed right now.

A bigger risk than being hunted down by a drone is that AI would be used to make incredibly effective propaganda. that would not seem like propaganda. So these are deep fakes. Yeah. Influence the direction of society, influence elections. Artificial intelligence just hones the message, hones the message, looks at the feedback, makes this message slightly better. Within milliseconds, it can... adapt this message and shift and react to news. And there's so many social media accounts out there that are not people. Like, how do you know it's a person, not a person? People look like they have a much better life than they really do. People are posting pictures of when they're really happy. They're modifying those pictures to be better looking.

Even if they're not modifying the pictures, they're at least selecting the pictures for the best lighting, the best angle. So people basically seem... They're way better looking than they basically really are. way happier seeming than they really are. So if you look at everyone on Instagram, you might think, man, there are all these happy, beautiful people and I'm not that good looking and I'm not happy. So I'm a suck, you know, and that's gonna make people sad. When in fact, those people you think are super happy, actually not that happy. Some of them are really depressed. They're very sad. Some of the happiest seeming people, actually some of the saddest people in reality. So I think things like that can make people quite sad. This may sound corny, but love is the answer. Wouldn't hurt to have more love in the world.

I think, you know, I think people should be nicer to each other and give more credit to others and don't assume that they're mean until you know they're actually mean, you know. It's easy to demonize people. You're usually wrong about it. People are nicer than you think. Give people more credit. There's going to be some amount of failure. But you want your net output, net useful output to be maximized. Failure is essentially irrelevant unless it is catastrophic. The final thing I would encourage you to do is now is the time to take risk.

As you get older, you're up Obligations increase so you and once you have a family you start taking risk not just for yourself But for your family as well it gets much harder to do things that might not work out So now is the time to do that Before you before you have those obligations, so I would encourage you to take risks now do something bold You won't regret it.

- Take my dog for a walk. - Yeah. - It's like looking in the mirror.

Yeah.

He's awesome. He's pretty edgy.

- Yeah, I was following him on the X platform, FKA Twitter, but it was something that was too jarring.

You're welcome.

Was it?

- Yeah, a year ago, I guess.

At least a year.

It looks like computer graphics.

It's world proof, literally.

One of the videos we're going to show is just going all like for Al Capone.

Just like if Al Capone showed up and emptied the entire magazine of a Tommy gun into the side of the car, you'd be okay.

The glasses are optionally bulletproof.

- Well, you can make anything bulletproof if you want, but the glass has to be very thick for it to be bulletproof. So it can't go up and down. So if you want fixed glass,

But it's okay. You can just duck.

- Where?

We plan to do our first deliveries next month. Oh, wow.

The hard part by far is manufacturing, not designing the car. You know, there's just not really a movie about that, but there should be. So in the sort of the, you know, the movies will always be about the sort of inventor who invented the car and then the job is done. Right. That's invented the object. Now the job is done. This is not true. That's the easy part. The hard part is manufacturing by far.

- Well, in order to make it affordable, you have to make it at volume. So you've got to make everything at high rate, consistently. If you tour the production line, you'd have a sense for it. You've got to have all of the casting machines, all of the stamping machines, as the case may be, the glass machines, the wheels, the tires, everything required for the motor, the battery cells, all of the constituents of the battery cells, all of the silicon that goes in, all of the chips, everything. It is. The manufacturing is somewhere between 100 and 1,000 times harder than making a prototype. Whoa. And then if you want to say, like, you want to get from, once you reach volume manufacturing, which is insanely difficult, then you want to make the car affordable.

It's harder to, say, reduce the cost of the car by 20 than it is to get to volume production in the first place. So I really cannot emphasize enough how hard production is relative to design. The first thing you design is trivial because you have to have taste and you have to know what to make. If you don't have a taste and judgment, then your prototype will be bad. But it is trivial really to churn out prototypes and it is extremely difficult to build a factory.

Very difficult. The difficulty of manufacturing is proportionate to the amount of new technology that you have in a car or in the product. In this case, there's a lot of new technology. The production line will move as fast as the slowest and least lucky and most foolish part of the entire production line. And you could say to first approximation, there are 10,000 things that have to go right, at least, for production to work. So if you have 9,999 things that are working and one that isn't, that sets your production rate. Yeah. That's by far the hard part. In fact, the really... The amazing thing about automobiles was not so much the invention of the automobile, but the invention of the factory, the mass manufacturing. And for that, Henry Ford deserves a tremendous amount of credit. He was a next-level genius.

In fact, Ford is really responsible for the entire mass manufacturing industry because he actually founded Cadillac, which was the heart of General Motors. Then he got kicked out and then started Ford. Really? Yeah, and then everyone just copied him.

Well...

Okay.

Yeah.

Here it is.

Huh.

As well.

Hmm.

- Depends on configuration, but it's about 7,000 pounds. There's different versions, but 6,000, 7,000 pounds. It's like similar to, it's a heavy truck.

Yeah.

We're aiming to get the zero to 60 below three seconds.

- Yes. - Wow. - For the beast mode version. So we've got a beast mode version that's... So there's this, well, I don't want to give it all away right now, but there are three demonstrations. One of them people are aware of, which is, you know, emptying a Tommy gun into the side of the car, a shotgun, 45 and a 9mm, and no penetrations.

And it comes that way from the factory.

Yeah, it'll be fine.

I mean,

Might.

Try it right now if you want.

- Is it at your house? Should we send someone to go get it? We can do the demo tonight.

I'll walk up maybe I'll drive back with an arrow sticking out of my car.

Okay, I'll bet you can't. Really? Yeah, I'll bet you a dollar. Damn.

- I think if you have a crossbow that's with enough force, you might, a crossbow might--

You can make a heavy crossbow bolt.

Yeah. I mean, the thing that matters is kind of the energy per unit area. So interesting, like a 9-mil or a 45, which is basically sort of a 10-mil, the 45 is, they're roughly the same, but the 45 actually is slightly worse penetration than a 9-mil.

- Yeah, I can do it right now.

- That's great, fuck yeah, let's do it.

Sick. We'll be right back. This is going to be funny. I'm just like, why does he have an arrow sticking out of his car?

- Just don't, you know, have the arrow come back at you. I mean, just beware of ricochets.

Yeah.

Hey, cutie.

Yeah.

Yeah.

Yeah. Like I said, we have a cool video we'll show at the handover event next month, which is emptying an entire magazine of Tommy Gunn, which I think is on the order of 50 rounds. You're just going full Al Capone, you know, like out on the side of the car. Shotgun, 9mm, .45.

- Well, I mean, - Essentially.

I mean...

You know, trucks are supposed to be tough, right?

So, is your truck bulletproof?

If you shoot any normal car, unlike in the movies where people hide behind car doors, a car door is basically very thin, mild steel. So if you shoot a gun through a regular truck, it'll go through both doors. You can't hide behind a car door like they do in the movies. Way back in the day, dating myself, but the A-Team where they would like, you know, there'd be like bullets flying everywhere and they'd be hiding behind the car door. That doesn't work. But it does in a Cybertruck.

As it's best in apocalyptic technology.

- Yeah, normally in other vehicles, gasoline or diesel vehicles, you've got the differential, which hangs down low between the rear wheels. So you're like, look under a car, under a truck, there's almost always a differential there that's hanging down pretty low. So if you hit the diff on a rock, you'll break it. - Yeah. - There's no, the bottom of the side truck is completely flat, and has the best clear height of any vehicle.

Well, you've got a surface area thing. So it's about a kilowatt per square meter normal to the sun, roughly. So it really depends on what kind of mileage. You don't have enough surface area to keep the car going just from the car surface area. But if you had something that folded out, you could make it self-sustaining.

Yeah, you'd have to unfold like the Starlink satellites do where you unfold the solar panels. You just need more surface area.

No, it's a kilowatt per square meter. That's what you're going to get when the sun, if you're normal to the sun, so 90 degrees to the sun.

That's just literally the...

- Yeah, so then you multiply your efficiency by that, so if your commercial panels, like maybe 25 efficient, if they're a good one, so you get like 250 watts per square meter. - There was one car-- - Roughly 10 feet.

Yeah. I mean, you can definitely you just don't have enough service area for it. But like you can like certainly you could run a house with solar, with the solar roof, the Tesla solar roof. You can run a house.

Correct. You don't have enough surface area.

Battery range is not a problem at this point. I mean, the Model S will go 400 miles. Model 3, Model Y will do over 300 miles. So, you know, that's more than most people need.

- This is not really a constraint. The point at which you've got a car that can do, let's say even at highway speeds 250 miles, or let's say 240 miles at 80 miles an hour. Now you're driving for three hours straight. And so if you start a trip at say 900 a.m., by noon you want to stop for lunch, go to the restroom, grab a coffee, by the time you come back your car is charged.

Yeah, like half an hour. Well, you don't want to... People will get used to it because it's a little different. You know... Like for a gasoline car, you'd want to fill it up. For an electric car, you'd want to actually go very close to zero. And the car can calculate how much range it has with precision. So if you, say, enter a road trip in a Tesla, it'll calculate all of the supercharges along the way, where you should stop, how much you should charge, and just let the computer do its thing and it'll work well. So you actually want to... charged to about 80 and then run it down all the way to 10 or less.

No, just long trips. If you're trying to minimize the amount of time you stop when charging. So let's say you want to stop for 20, 30 minutes, then you really... It's a little counterintuitive because for a gasoline car, you would fill it up. For a battery, the charge state tapers off as you get above 80%. You can think of it like the... I think the right analogy here is cars in a parking lot. So the lithium ions are trying to find a parking space as they move across from one side of the battery to the other side from cathode to I mean, there's sort of just these ions that are just bouncing around looking for a parking space. So when the parking lot's empty, they can zip right in there and find a spot. It's easy. As the parking lot gets full, just like trying to find a parking space at a mall, you have to hunt around for a spot.

And that's basically what's going on is the ions are looking for a parking spot. So as the battery gets full, The closer to full, it's harder and harder to find a spot. They have to bounce around more.

- Correct. Getting from 80 to 100, it takes about as much time as getting from zero to 80. - Oh. - Just think of like the island's gotta find a parking spot. - Oh. - And just like if you're in a mall and it's busy, then it takes longer to find a parking spot than if it's empty.

Yeah, range is not an issue. Cost is more of an issue. So just to make the car affordable, a long-range car needs to be affordable.

We're aiming to make about 200,000 a year at volume production. Wow! Maybe a little more. But I just can't emphasize enough that manufacturing is much, much harder than the initial design. You know, you can... The Cybertruck was easy to design. I'm not trying to trivialize design. It's just what I'm trying to do is to emphasize the difficulty of manufacturing, which is not understood by the public because there's no movie about it. So there's lots of movies about the sort of wild adventure in the garage. But I'm not aware of any movie about manufacturing. Have you ever heard of a movie about manufacturing?

Coming in my brain, but I don't think that's what it's even about, so I have no idea.

Michael Keaton was making some cars in somewhere. I was going to look it up on email.

It is Tommy boy.

That's about as good as I think it is.

Yeah, yeah. I mean, there's a reason why generally politicians really try very hard to get a factory in their area is because it's a massive generator of jobs. And for every factory job, there's like five, roughly five support jobs. So it's like teachers, electricians, plumbers, lawyers, accountants.

Restaurants. So there's, so manufacturing is kind of like a nucleus from which many jobs spring. That's why it's generally, you know, governors and prime ministers and presidents will try so hard to get a factory in their country or region.

- I thought it would be very difficult. I thought our probability of success was less than 10%. - Whoa. - Yeah, I mean, it would be foolish to think anything else other than that. I mean, even at this point, the only car companies that have not gone bankrupt are Ford and Tesla, American car companies. You know, General Motors went bankrupt and Chrysler went bankrupt in 2009. There's some chance they'll go bankrupt again. Ford and Tesla barely made it. It was incredibly difficult to keep Tesla alive when General Motors and Chrysler were going bankrupt. Because manufacturing is the actual hard thing, by far the hard thing.

I just can't emphasize that enough, and I hope somebody makes a movie about that.

Anyone.

I don't care if anyone plays me. But I do think that...

Yeah, I know he rocks. So, you know, Jim Folley is the CEO of Ford, and he's Chris Folley's cousin.

Thank you.

And they look, I mean, they look related.

Yeah.

I mean, the thing is that writers are just disconnected from manufacturing.  they just never see it.  so...  right.  and i guess you have to try to create some narrative arc.  i mean, there are some shows like How It's Made type of thing, but they're pretty niche.  the... I know I'm somewhat of a broken record here, but I can't emphasize enough that it is insanely difficult to manufacture.

Oh yeah.

Well, it's certainly a recipe for trouble, I suppose, or contention.

I mean, this is going to sound somewhat melodramatic, but I was worried about that it was having a corrosive effect on civilization. That it was just having a bad impact. And... - I think part of it is that it's where it was located, which is downtown San Francisco. And while I think San Francisco's a beautiful city, and we should really fight hard to kind of right the ship of San Francisco, if you walked around downtown San Francisco, right near the ex-FKA Twitter headquarters, it's a zombie apocalypse. I mean, it's rough. Have you been in that area?

It's crazy.

You can't believe it until you go there. So, now you have to say, well, what philosophy led to that outcome? And that philosophy was being piped to Earth. So, you know, a philosophy that would be ordinarily quite niche and geographically constrained, so that sort of the fallout area would be limited, was effectively given an information weapon. a tech information technology weapon to propagate uh what is essentially a mind virus to the rest of earth and the outcome of that mind virus is very clear if you walk around the streets of downtown san francisco it is the end of civilization.

Yes. Well, in order for the virus to propagate, it must suppress opposing viewpoints.

- Correct. I mean, you've felt the virus. - Yeah. - People have tried to cancel you so many times.

- It's a death cult. No, no, that is exactly right.

The extinctionists. Like, it's in the limit, it is that they're propagating the extinction of humanity and civilization. And there's some people who are, like most of the time it's implicit, but sometimes it's explicit. Like there was a guy on the front page of the New York Times who literally has the thing called the Extinctionist Movement, and he was quoted on the front page of the New York Times as saying, there are 8 billion people in the world, but it would be better if there were none. And I'm like, well, buddy, you can start with yourself.

Um,

Google and Facebook.

By the way.

Extinction, they are and they can go to hell.

Yeah.

- I'm pro-environment, but in the limit, if you take environmentalism to an extreme, you start to view humanity as a plague on the surface of the Earth, like a mold or something. - Right. But this is actually false. The Earth could take probably 10 times the current civilization. The population could be, you could 10x the population without destroying the rainforest. So the environmental movement, and I'm an environmentalist, has gone too far. They've gone way too far. If you start thinking that humans are bad, then the natural conclusion is humans should die out. Now, I'm headed to an AI safety, international sort of AI safety conference later tonight, leaving in about three hours. And... I don't know, I meet with the British Prime Minister, a number of other people.

So you have to say like, how could AI go wrong? Well, if AI gets programmed by the extinctionists, its utility function will be the extinction of humanity.

Yeah.

They won't even think it's bad, like that guy.

There's no shortage of power. We talked about solar power for cars. The issue is that cars just have a very low service area. But you could actually power the entire United States with 100 miles by 100 miles of solar. Really? Yes.

Wish they were plenty.

- You need batteries, but yes.

Yeah, it's not hard. I mean, meaning it's like, it's very feasible. In fact, I mean, the sun is converting over 4 million tons of mass to energy every second. And it's no maintenance. That thing just works. We have a giant fusion reactor in the sky that is the sun. In fact, people like, someone's like, well, what about in a radiation? I'm like, the sun is literally a nuclear reactor in the sky.

Are you scared to go in daylight?

- Yes. The radiation risk is greatly overestimated. You know?

- Yeah, exactly. - Right? - Get bitten by a radioactive spider and suddenly you have spider abilities.

What if you're a great actor with Cockroach? You'd be like the Cockroach Man. Yeah, you'd be like...

I think the problem is most people just don't understand what radiation is. And so it just sounds like a mysterious, invisible death ray.

I mean, the things you can go to, you can actually torture a novel right now.

Yes.

- Well, I mean, there's a war zone,

The issue is more getting shot than it is... You don't have a radiation risk. I mean, the problem is, I think when people don't understand what radiation is, they just can't see it, they can't feel it. They think, well, I could just die at any moment from a magic death ray. Right. I've had people say, oh, the radiation from their phone is going to hurt them or they're scared of the microwave. I'm like... When you say radiation, do you mean particles or photons? And if you mean photons, what wavelength? And they're like, I don't know what you mean. They don't know anything about that.

Yeah, but nobody died of radiation from Fukushima. Not one person. True. In fact, but I was asked by people in California, like when Fukushima happened, whether radiation would get to California. And I'm like, that's the dumbest thing I've ever heard. And so actually to help support Japan, I flew to Fukushima and ate locally grown vegetables on TV. And I'm still alive.

Yeah, that's irrational. There is no physics substance to that, I would say, at all, not even slightly.

Yes. Go back.

- If you eat too much tuna, you're gonna have-- - Mercury. - Yes, correct. Mercury poisoning from tuna is a real thing.

Too many sardines.

- It's like, is your girlfriend angry at you?

I mean, yeah, it's...

I love them. But turns out like you can't eat too much of it because they're Yeah, they're.

I mean, a little sardines once in a while, but not three cans.

I'm going to count us out.

Yeah. So, don't eat too many sardines. I think anchovies really, really pep up a Caesar salad.

That's...

- I mean, as a kid, I was very much against Hawaiian pizza, and as an adult, I like it.

Wait, can we order some right now?

Okay, let's try it. That'd be sick.

Fantastic. I'm hungry. Let's...

- No time like the present.

- Just on the pizza, all right?

What is this salty sauce that's so mysterious?

What is the salty tangy substance on that?

It's wild. Yeah, once in a while I see someone paranoid. I'm like... On a street.

Yeah. Masks are not like some magic health shield. I mean, there are times where, you know, masks aren't like if a surgeon is operating on you or whatever, then you don't want the surgeon spitting in your wound, you know. But most of the time, a mask is not good for you.

I'd say like a mask is much like sort of a shield in battle in that, you know, it'll help protect you a little bit from arrows and stuff, but it doesn't make you arrow groove. We're just talking about shooting arrows and stuff. Right.

So I mean, there are times when masks are warranted, but most of the time it's actually counterproductive.

Yeah. No, I mean, all Twitter was basically an arm of the government.

Yeah, it's weird. No, I mean, the degree to which, and by the way, Jack didn't really know this, but the degree to which Twitter was simply an arm of the government was not well understood by the public. And it was, there was no, it was whatever the official government, it was like Pravda, basically. You know, it's a state publication is the way to think of old Twitter. It was a state publication.

There was basically oppression of any views that would even, I would say, be considered middle of the road. But certainly anything on the right, I'm not talking about like far right, I'm just talking mildly right. The people, like Republicans were suppressed at 10 times the rate of Democrats. Now, that's because old Twitter was fundamentally controlled by the far left. It was completely controlled by the far left. That's why I say San Francisco Berkeley is a niche ideology. It's hard to say, is there a place that's more far left than San Francisco Berkeley?

- Maybe Portland, but it's like-- - Right there. - Yeah, those two places are the most far left places in America.

So from their standpoint, everything is to the right, including moderates. Right. - Right. - So, now, if you internalize a far left position, everything seems wrong to you that is not far left.

And so they naturally oppressed anything that didn't agree with their views. That's why I say that it was an accidental far-left information weapon. So... Because it's like Silicon Valley attracts the smartest engineers, the smartest sort of technologists and programmers from around the world. They created an information weapon that was then harnessed by the far left who could not themselves create the weapon but happened to be co-located where the technologists were.

The technologists generally are moderate, maybe moderate left, but they're not far left. That's why I say San Francisco, Berkeley, it doesn't even extend to South San Francisco or even to Palo Alto. So, SF Berkeley is the most far left, perhaps in a competition with Portland, but I'd say SF Berkeley is more far left even than Portland. Like literally in America, we're talking about an area that's maybe a 10-mile radius. And so normally the effects, the negative effects of a far left ideology that is would be geographically limited to a 10 mile radius. That's like not, it's small, like so any bad effects of that ideology would be geographically constrained under normal circumstances and have been in the past.

But when you have basically a technological megaphone, which was Twitter and social media in general, suddenly the far left are handed a megaphone to Earth, an incredibly powerful technology weapon that they themselves could not create, but they happen to be co-located with the technologists who created it by accident.

I think some people understand that.

- Some people don't understand. So, I mean, from the standpoint of some people who used to be at Twitter, the people are like, well, it's a big shift to the right. That is correct. It is a shift to the right because everything is to the right if you're far left. Everything is to the right. But how many far left people have actually been suspended or banned from Twitter now X? Zero. So it's really just moved to the center, but from the perspective of the far left, it's moved to the right. So everything's relative.

I should say it propagated that far-left philosophy not just to America, but to everywhere on earth. Right. Yeah.

Like, I always think of like, hey, Mr. Taliban, tell him you're banana. Hey, Mr. Taliban.

Daylight coming, I want to go.  yeah, so the point is, from my standpoint, is that x, f, k, twitter should represent the sort of collective consciousness of humanity.  so now that means that there are going to be views on there that you don't like or disagree with. Um, But that's humanity. So are you going to exclude them or not? Now, I mean, if somebody breaks the law, then the account is suspended. I mean, if they actively advocate murder, then the account is suspended.

We do have what we call like the kind of United Nations exclusion rule, which is that you can have, say, the Ayatollah who, you know, would prefer that Israel didn't exist, for example. But he's allowed to go to the UN building in New York. In fact, generally officials from Iran do in fact to the UN building in New York, even though they are a heavily sanctioned country. So I think that there's merit to having, just like there's some merit to the UN, one can disagree with the UN and I think we shouldn't have a world government that we bow down to, but in fact that's risky for civilization. But I think you do want to have the leaders of countries represented on social media. You want to hear what they have to say even if what they say is terrible.

Yes, absolutely.

I mean, the whole point of free speech, free speech is only relevant, the First Amendment is only relevant if you allow people you don't like to say things you don't like. Because if you like it, you don't need a First Amendment. So the whole point of free speech is that, frankly, even people you hate say things you hate because if people you hate can say things that you hate, that means that they can't stop you from saying what you want to say, which is very, very important.

-Anyone they didn't like, they censored. -Yeah. -Or what's called de-amplify.

I mean, in my view, there have been severe First Amendment violations by multiple government agencies, and there should be repercussions for that.

Yeah, it's funny that when the shoe's on the other foot, they now say the private company can't do whatever it wants.

No, but the government itself is not allowed to censor speech. But in my view, the government de facto did censor speech. And there should at least be a case that is heard by the public. Because if the government severely coerces... you know, a platform, a sort of coerces the press, then I think that is or should be a First Amendment violation.

If they try to do that with a newspaper, they'll get in trouble.

It's absolutely all the social media companies. In fact, right now, X, if you want me to notice Twitter, is the only one that is not kowtowing to the government. It's the only one. All the others just do exactly what the government wants.

Yes.

I mean,

I mean, it is weird the degree to which the media is in lockstep. Like, why is the media in lockstep? And why doesn't the media question the government? They used to. Why don't they do that anymore? Seems weird. Something doesn't add up.

I actually agree with pharmaceutical advertising provided it's truthful because there could be some drug that is helpful to someone but obviously the claims need to be accurate. So I actually think pharmaceutical advertising if it is accurate I think it actually you know, play devil's advocate here. I think pharmaceutical advertising is generally accurate. I think that's actually okay. Now, I should say that a lot of the censorship that we see is coming from, indirectly from advertisers and advertising agencies and from PR companies who want a particular viewpoint pushed or are being, you know, driven by nonprofits to push a particular... What will happen is there'll be a group of nonprofits that push advertisers to advertise or not advertise a particular platform.

And often he has the George Soros boogeyman. But I mean, Soros actually... You know, he is, I believe, the top contributor to the Democratic Party.  the second one was sam backward freed.  so, and Soros, I don't know.  i mean, he had a very difficult upbringing.  yeah. And in my opinion, he fundamentally hates humanity. That's my opinion. Really? Yeah. I mean, well, he's doing things that erode the fabric of civilization. You know, getting DAs elected who refuse to prosecute crime. That's part of the problem in San Francisco and L.A. and much of other cities. So why would you do that?

I mean, he's pushing things to other countries too.

Now, George at this point is pretty old. I mean, he's not... He's basically a Betsy now at this point. He's very smart and he's very good at arbitrage. Famously, he shorted the British pound. That's sort of how I think he made his first money was shorting the pound. He's good at spotting basically arbitrage like spotting value for money that other people don't see. So, one of the things he noticed was that the value for money in local races is much higher than it is in national races. So, the lowest value for money is a presidential race. Then next lowest value for money is a Senate race, then a Congress. But once you get to sort of city and state district attorneys, the value for money is extremely good.

And Soros realized that you don't actually need to change the laws. You just need to change how they're enforced. If nobody chooses to enforce the law or the laws are differentially enforced, it's like changing the laws. That's what he figured out.

I'm pulling the brakes.

Yeah, pull the brakes right now.

Well, I think more people should. Most people just don't want to rock the boat. Most people are looking for acceptance from society and they're, you know, if there's some negative press article, they're like shattered.

Go ahead. Make my day.

It's just a lot of people will read that. I mean, less people these days than in the past.

I find the New York Times these days to be hard to read.

Yes.

I think we should cut off Chick-fil-A exports. That'll bring them to the knees right away. Yeah. What do you do, take a chip and dip it in nothing?

I hope that's coming.

Yeah.

I think so. I'll get some information.

Pizza Leone.

It shouldn't take too long. They're not too far away, and it's late, so it shouldn't take too long.

I would have bet.

20 minutes, 30 minutes, maybe max 40. But.

You know, that's something I have to say I've got a lot of respect for. If somebody's willing to make pizza late at night,

My hat is off. I mean, that is like,

Yeah.

I'm upset.

- That's cool.

- COVID just took out so many restaurants.

- The mind virus. I mean, it's like just crazy.

Yeah, I mean, for most of COVID, I was actually in South Texas building this Starship factory. And, you know, we were just, yeah, no mask, no nothing, just building a factory, building rockets. And then, you know, you would have teams from California visit all masked up and they'd freak out that we don't have masks. And we're like, we're still alive, man. Yeah. So, yeah.

Not that I'm aware of, no. So part of it is that I kind of saw a dress rehearsal, which is that it kind of started in Wuhan. And so Tesla's got 20,000 employees in China. And so the first wave happened in China, and nobody died or got seriously ill. I was like, okay, well, this is... Can't be that bad. And we're not relying on government statistics. We literally know who showed up for work. Did they badge in or not? And we had no one die and no one got seriously ill. So I'm like, well, I don't know what the big deal is.

No, it was just a panic.

And a lot of deaths got ascribed to COVID that had nothing to do with COVID. And in fact, I'd say in the beginning, the cure is worse than the disease. So, because people panic too much. And so that somebody would get diagnosed with COVID, they put them on intubated ventilator for a week, and this was going to basically cook your lungs. So if you're on pure O2 under pressure with a tube stuck down your throat and under anesthetic, this is very bad for you. Like it's one thing if you do that for a couple hours for an operation, but you do that for a week. it's going to roast your lungs. The air that we're breathing right now is 78 nitrogen, 1 argon, about 21 oxygen, and some miscellaneous. So if you ask most people, what are you breathing? They say oxygen. No, you're breathing nitrogen. Only about a fifth of it is oxygen. And there's about 1 argon.

So I know quite a lot about life support systems because we make spaceships. And you have to keep people alive in a vacuum. So you've got to say, okay, what percentage nitrogen, what percentage oxygen are you going to do? What's the pressure going to be? And so like sea level pressure is about 15 pounds per square inch. And the partial pressure of oxygen being 20 is therefore roughly three pounds per square inch of oxygen. So in a spacecraft, you want to, and especially if you're in a spacesuit, you want to lower the pressure. So you want to keep the oxygen, still give people enough oxygen to function, obviously, but you want to lower the nitrogen content so that you don't have a spacesuit that's at 15 psi because at 15 psi, you just, you know, pop out like a balloon. It's like hard to move. So you want to try to lower the pressure down to around, I don't know, six, seven psi, maybe even five psi.

So you'd lower it to, try to keep the partial pressure of oxygen roughly the same, so maybe around three 3 psi of nitrogen, so you got 50/50 mix of nitrogen and oxygen. And then you just get pretty hot into that wig.

I just felt like getting hot too.

I mean, it's going to be sweaty and itchy. A little bit. Yeah.

Yeah.

Anyway, so I know a thing or two about keeping people alive in a vacuum, you know. Right. So, you know, we designed the life support system for keeping humans alive in a vacuum, in the vacuum of space, which is very difficult. So we know quite a lot about what it takes to keep people alive. So you don't want to feed people, you know, 100 oxygen. That's actually for an extended period of time. This is not good for you.

Yeah. So, in fact, I actually posted about that because I called doctors in Wuhan and said, what are the biggest mistakes that you made on the first wave? Those were early on. And they said, we put far too many people on intubated ventilators. So then I actually posted on Twitter at the time and said, hey, uh, What I'm hearing from Wuhan is that they made a big mistake in putting people on intubated ventilators for an extended period. And that this is actually what is damaging the lungs, not COVID. It's the treatment. The cure is worse than the disease. And people yelled at me and said, I'm not a doctor. I'm like, yeah, but I do make spaceships with life support systems. What do you do? - I like that. - Like twiddle nubs. I'm like, okay, great. - Yeah. - Rock on.

As I said, the only media that does not have crazy censorship at this point is X.

That I'm aware of. Everyone else, everything else is censored.

- She's got a syndrome.

Sorry, what do you mean?

- Yeah, one of the, actually the big inventions in chemistry was binding nitrogen. Nitrogen's actually fairly inert, so it's quite hard to actually pull nitrogen out of there and bind it into ammonia. Basically the process for creating ammonia was actually.

Yeah.

But it was actually very important to bind nitrogen from the air to fertilizer. So that actually was, frankly, a lifesaving invention at scale because you just run out of nitrogen. So... Pure nitrogen is a low energy state, so to try to bind it into a fertilizer requires a lot of energy to do that. It's quite tricky. So that was a very important breakthrough.

Um,

- Oh yeah, yeah, because of Ferdinand Froelich.

- That might be true. It was a fundamental problem for most of civilization is how do you get nitrogen for the plants? The limiting factor in fact even in the rainforest is like the nitrogen is bound nitrogen.

Well, at first, you would have to have a life support system because Mars has a low-density atmosphere, only about 1 the density of Earth, and it's primarily CO2. Now, over time, you can terraform Mars. Terraform means make it like Earth, essentially. And if you warm Mars up, there's a bunch of frozen CO2 that will evaporate, densify the atmosphere, and you'd actually want kind of global warming on Mars. Because Mars is about 50 further away from the sun than the Earth. So it gets about less than half the solar energy that Earth does.

It appears highly likely that Mars had liquid oceans, albeit a long time ago. There's a lot of ice. Mars is covered in ice. Now, the ice is then covered in dust mostly, except at the poles. So there's a lot of ice. In fact, I believe if Mars was warmed up, you'd have an ocean about a mile deep on 40 of the planet. So it's quite a lot of water.

Evidence suggests that it is most likely that Mars had liquid water.

Well, just over time, the solar system cooled. So Earth used to be much like in the very early Earth was like molten rock. You know, so really almost nothing could survive in the beginning. We're just a wall of lava. We're still mostly a wall of lava. We're like creme brulee, like there's a thin crust and it's mushy rock, very hot mushy rock underneath. And technically that rock is in a semi-solid state, but as soon as it gets to a low pressure, like pops out of the ocean, you have a volcano obviously with lava.

So it's at surface ambient pressure, we're basically covered in liquid rock. Are you aware of that? A thin crust on liquid rock.

Yeah, I'm pretty sure they don't come from us.

If there aren't any spaceships, then I'm like, I don't believe it. If they do have a spaceship, I'll believe it.

If it got buried in dirt, we'd find it even like a million years from now.

Well, what you'd find is--

It's kind of like...

- Yeah, but you'd have something similar to fossils, basically. The fossils, they essentially discolor the rock. So eventually, whatever the fossil is, and sometimes the fossil's like an amber or something like that, where it still does survive more or less intact. But there's fossilized dinosaur fossils and tree fossils.

- So you'd see it like a Cybertruck shape in the rock, basically.

- Oh yeah, yeah, we would definitely find evidence of it. Well, I mean, if it was one spaceship, maybe not, but if it was a lot of them, sure.

You cannot be serious.

5,000 years? Yeah.

Not that much time.

- It's nothing on the Galactic Times.

I mean, it is, I think there's some debate, it's like, how do you say what the, when did civilization start? And I'd say like probably from the first writing. And the first writing is only 5,500 years old.

It's worth reading about the history of writing, but only 5,500 years? And one has to credit basically the ancient Sumerians, who aren't around anymore, with the first writing.

Um, okay.

- Yeah, like the first, it's difficult to date with precision, or at least within a few hundred years, but roughly 5500 years, like if you say what is the oldest stone tablet,

Because this is, if you're like an archeologist, if you were to discover something older than that, you'd be very famous. It's like they really looked.

And 5,500 years really is kind of the, if you say like any kind of evidence that I've seen that is actually substantial, is writing is 5,500 years old.

Okay.

- I think even if you say like, okay, even if you say like, okay, civilization is like 9,000 years old, it's still nothing.

So, you know, we're still talking about like a very tiny fraction of Earth's existence.

The geological evidence suggests the Earth is about four and a half billion years old. So human civilization has been around for roughly one millionth of Earth's existence.

'cause we're just basically nothing. And even if it's 10,000 years since--

- Absolutely, I think we should view civilization as being fragile.

Yeah. Foxy.

- No, actually one of my sons who is a Saxon, he has these profound observations. And he asked me what was LA like 4,000 years ago? I'm like, it wasn't around. And he said, what will it be like 4,000 years from now? Probably buried under rubble, I guess.

- Yeah, exactly.

- And he asked me, did they speak English 4,000 years ago? I'm like, nope. - Here we go. - It's like, will they speak English 4,000 years from now? Probably not.

Really? Yeah.

Why not?

Well, I don't think anyone's going to accuse pizza of being like the healthiest thing in the world. This looks awesome.

Peace. All right. Sick. This is awesome.

I really hit the spot.

Yeah, exactly. His stuff is just...

What's the July in your mouth?

Ha ha ha ha ha ha.

- It's hard to mess with pizza, frankly.

I don't know.

Not really, no.

Now.

I don't eat fish that often.

Yeah.

Fish really is way better. Way better. Way better. Way better.

Yeah.

- Kind of marinate. - Before you cook. - You don't marinate fish, I think.

Okay.

- Is that in town?

Sushi by Scratch?

He's not allowed to go to Austin?

Sushi by scratch. Got it. Yeah.

That's good.

You've been to Matsuhisa in la? yes.  the amakusa brothers is great.  yeah.

Trust for Capita is excellent. I.

Yeah.

Yeah.

The competition is strong.

- A lot of good restaurants in the town.

Yeah. It's boomtown.

Yep.

Well, we're about 10,000 direct-ish, and then I think 50,000 indirect. So it's a lot.

There's only too many people in the Greater Austin area.

In fact, the kind of limiting factor for growth is just finding enough people. Yeah.

Like the subtitle chewing sounds.

Subtitle chewing sounds.

You son of a bitch. I'm certainly eating my full.

Yeah, calves are awesome. Yeah, I know. It's like...

I mean, it's the dopamine explosion from Carl.

I mean, once in a while, it's fine.

Well, it's like Tim Ferriss has like that, you know, you have one meal a week or something like that.

Ice cream sundaes are great. Oh,

Amazing.

Yeah.

Yeah.

Yeah. What's up with those two?

- Oh yeah.

That's possible.

I know. There's like that pizza restaurant, that pizza chain, they have the best ice cream sundae that I've ever seen. It's a giant one.

- God, I'm trying to remember the name of the, it is a chain, but it's not like a big chain.

We're seeing pizza and ice cream Sundays.

Oh, Book It or Bad Post.

- Yeah. - They've got a gigantic ice cream sundae.

It's amazing.

It's actually really good. No kidding. It's amazing.

- Frigatefos is great.

Yeah, there's one in Palo Alto.

Yeah, it's really good.

I like all the photographs on the wall and everything.

Yeah.

I used to take my kids to the one at the Grove in LA.

In LA or here?

We've got the Starlink terminal factory. So we, for the Starlink v4 terminals, we built them here. We built the, what's called the, well, the v3, the version 3 terminals and the version 3 minis. There's like a, there's like, we do part of the production, or actually, I should say, we've done all of the production of the terminals thus far in L.A., And we'll continue to do production in L.A., but we've also just completed a second factory in Bastrop just about 20 minutes from here.

Well, the Starship stuff is in South Texas near the border, just right on the Rio Grande.

I was just literally looking at satellite images and And for going to orbit, you kind of need to... You want to launch eastward so that you can take advantage of Earth's rotation to get to orbit. So it's a little counterintuitive that reaching orbital velocity... Getting to orbit is about your speed parallel to the Earth's surface. It's like how fast are you zooming around Earth? It's not a... The gravity at the altitude of the space station is almost the same as it is on the ground. The reason the space station is actually up there is kind of the wrong terminology. It's actually moving around the Earth at 17,000 miles an hour. So the space station goes around the Earth at roughly every 90 minutes.

And because Earth is turning, and the speed at which it is turning, or the way you experience velocity, it's moving at roughly 1,000 miles an hour at the equator. So the closer you are to the equator, the more you can take advantage of Earth rotation to reach orbital velocity. So you want to, and since it's rotating eastward, you want to be on the east coast to make it easier to get to orbital velocity. So you need a section of coast that's on the east, fairly southward, that is not occupied. So like most of, almost really all of Florida, except for Cape Canaveral, is wall-to-wall houses on the beach. There's almost no section of Florida that, every section of Florida has houses, except for Cape Canaveral, which is a government base.

So one of the few spots that wasn't occupied was the area just adjacent to the border with Mexico. And it just wasn't super well suited to holiday homes. And there was at one point a development that was going to take place, but then a hurricane came and destroyed the entire place and in fact rearranged the land. So some of the plots were underwater.

So it's kind of a, it's a tough spot to build a home, and that's why it was unoccupied. So we needed a piece of, and it needs to be U.S. territory because if we go outside the U.S., there are export restrictions because rocket technology is an advanced weapons technology. So we can't just like, you know, arbitrarily go to another country. Yeah. So it needed to be U.S. land, east coast, and fairly southward.

It's one of the few spots that exist like that.

Yeah, intercontinental ballistic missiles.

Yeah, we could drop a rocket anywhere. Nobody could stop us.

Yeah.

Yes. I mean, you've seen the videos of the rocket landing, right?

It's amazing. Very precise.

We can make land basically anywhere.

Or not land. Yeah. I mean, he doesn't have to turn on the thrusters to slow down.

It's a lot for a human brain to handle.

It strains my meat computer.

Rocket science.

Man, that was expensive.

Everything.

- Absolutely. People, I guess, are afraid of being, yeah, ostracized is like, fear of being ostracized, I think, is probably the biggest issue. And then just being totally shut down. - Yeah. - You know, where you have no outlet. And you can just basically disappear except for in-person meetings. So, yeah, I think that's the biggest issue. Yeah, it was important to have at least one social media outlet that wasn't cancelling people.

- I don't have a good word for it, but.

- All my exes live in Texas.

Yeah, yeah.

Yeah. It's like... Wild. Eerily quiet. It's wild. I mean, Zach himself doesn't post. So...

You gotta use your own product.

Make a little thread in there.

I don't use Instagram.

Yeah, but I didn't use Instagram for a while. I mean, there was a time where I was posting on Instagram, but... Found myself doing selfies, and I'm like what the hell is wrong with me Why am I posing for selfies to get likes this is crazy and like so then I was like You know if you if you if you pose for selfies on on Twitter that people would jump all over you you know yeah, yeah.

- That's true. - They were like, What's wrong with you?

Yeah. It's like pretty pictures, basically.

You know, I am concerned that like, like say Instagram actually leads to more unhappiness, not less, in the sense that it just looks like everyone's having a great time and is way better looking than they really are. And so you're like, man, everyone's good looking and having a great time. And then you sort of compare yourself to that and it's like, damn, I'm not as good looking and I seem to be sad a lot. And then you're like, man, I think it could make you kind of depressed, right?

- Yeah, people can't just make themselves be better looking with the realest limit.

I mean, yeah, that's too bad. So I don't know. I think...

- I think they have to say is Instagram a net happiness generator or not? I'm not sure it is.

I mean, it's almost like they lost money or something.

It looks like it melted.

Oh, wait. SPF does?

- One of them I saw,

Maybe this one won't ask because some of those ones I saw. One of them. Well, I'm flattering.

You're joking.

You've killed me.

It's like Clark Kent or something.

There's some rough pictures, though.

No.

It looks like she's melting.

I don't know who SBF's PR team is, but they're doing an incredible job.

Well, I mean, the dude ripped tons of people off and stole their money. And yet he's getting basically back rubbed from the press.

Yeah, I don't know. I don't know what to do with it.

Well, I don't know what he's doing, but-- - Something's going on. - The number of articles that I've seen where it's basically a misunderstood philanthropist is ridiculous.

Yeah. And I mean, a lot of people, you know, fell for his bullshit. But, I mean, first of all, I hadn't really heard of the guy. I'm like, who is this guy? And what does he do? And he's in the Bahamas? That's pretty sus to begin with.

- If you're on a tropical island, finance organizations on tropical islands generally have a bad track record.

- And crypto is scammed. The scam probability in crypto is high.

I think that's it.

Yeah, people's stuff is great. But I mean, the funny thing is that the NFT is not even on the blockchain. It's just a URL to the JPEG. So it's not even like, it's like you should at least encode the JPEG in the blockchain. Because like, if the URL, if the company housing the image goes out of business, you don't have the image anymore.

Thank you.

- With art, there is a fair bit of money laundering and tax avoidance that is, so some of these things that seem inexplicable.

Did he actually sell paintings for large sums of money?

Probably that seems unlikely to be a legit transaction.

- Unlikely.

I mean, the thing is that it's hard to price art. - Right. - Because it's in the eye of the beholder. So, how can you say whether something--

Yeah.

That's not bad.

I mean, I suspect he-- I mean, I think he's not untalented. Right. So, I mean, I actually don't have any issues with his lifestyle or anything.

Yeah.

Not bad. It's not bad.

I mean, I have heard that, but I have not heard any evidence for it.

By modern arts asyle?

- Cat with a tin foil hat.

Where's Margaret?

I don't know. I think that is some of what she does, yeah.

- I think so, it was pretty good, but...

- I think art is very much in the eye of the beholder. It's like, what does it make you, how does it make you think and feel? And if it makes you think and feel in a way that you like, then it's good.

Yeah.

Yes. A number of these very high-priced art things are tax evasion and money laundering.

No.

Okay.

Yeah.

Yeah.

- Yeah, I mean, I enjoy art for the aesthetics, but not for the name value.

Is that the weird one?

Okay.

Well actually I was just... The Zuck fight is funny because he was posting all these fight videos and then someone on Twitter at the time said, Hey, you should fight Zuck. And I said, Well, I'm willing to fight if he is. And, um, and then Zach posted, uh, I think on Instagram or something, uh, name the place or something, something to that effect. And I was like, okay, how about the Vegas Octagon? Um, and then, um, and then, uh, Italy actually was willing to let us use the Coliseum. So then I was like, well, let's... Can't turn that down, you know? And then... But then I was like, well, if it's going to be in the Coliseum, you know, we're not... Like, I like UFC and everything, but we don't want to have, like, tons of ads and UFC branding on the Coliseum because it's a historical, you know, place. It's a place of great history.

You don't want to just, you know, have it be all like NASCAR. Right.

And then Zuck pulled out. He was the pull out method. He pulled out of it? Yeah, yeah.

- Well, I'm willing to, so he was like, oh no, it's gotta be UFC rules. I'm like, well, okay, we're gonna have UFC rules in the Coliseum, it's fine, but we just don't wanna have, we gotta respect the historical integrity of the place.

I mean, he's like Gladiator, you know. Oh, yeah. Come on.

So then he said, oh, well, you know, he accused me of not being serious. And I said, look, listen, at the end of the day, I'll fight you any place, anywhere, under any rules. Oh. Zuck. That's what I said. Wow. So I'm, you know, name the, he said name the place. I'm like, I'm happy to fight him in a house, on a mouse, with a louse. We'd like go full Dr. Seuss here.

- How much time? - I'm a way bigger than him, this is unfair.

- I don't think you should fight me.

- I'll take 50 hairpin him. - Yeah. - I'll just use a, I've got my patented walrus move. I'll just line him. - A walrus move? - Well, you know, like a walrus doesn't need martial arts training.

Because it's really big. You don't want to go wrestling at Walrus.

- 'Cause he's gonna roll on you.

- Yeah, yeah, no, I did 10 years of martial arts.

For a decade or so.

I did.

Judo, kayaku, shin kai, karate. I did some jujitsu, taekwondo, street fighting, which was involuntary. I think I'd be decent. I did martial arts competitions when I was a teenager.

But like Lex is, I think he's got like 20 heavier than Zuck. And I'm way bigger than Lex.

That's why they have weight categories. Oh, yeah.

- No, no, no.

- No, he's from New Zealand or something.

He seems then.

Like Alex Rift.

- Brilliant. - But no, you see, I was impressed when I met him. I mean, the things that, like, if I was fighting someone who I was not, where I was not much bigger than them, then I would be more concerned.

I don't need any time.

That will not be a factor. - Really? - Yeah. - I mean,

I'm willing to do it anytime, anywhere, anyplace, anywhere.

I mean, I challenge him to a duel under any circumstances.

Sure.

On.

Guns at noon.

Listen, there's just a reason they have weight categories. So there's a friend of mine who is pretty good at fighting, but she weighs about half of what I do. And... And I said, let me show you why there's weird categories in fighting. And I'm going to do a move called the walrus. And you have to just, I'm just going to lie on you. I'm not going to put you in a lock or anything. I'm just going to lie on you. But I'm going to position myself such that it's hard to get out from under me. And I just want to lie crossways on you. And you try to get away. And you won't be able to get away. Because you couldn't. Just, you know, like if a horse falls on you. Right. You can get trapped under a horse.

Yeah, 240, yeah.

So no, I'm not a horse, but I'm saying in the limit, if something's heavy enough, like if a horse falls on you and dies, you can get trapped under a horse and not be able to get yourself out.

Unlikely.

I'm not saying it's impossible. It's just highly unlikely. And if this were not the case, there would not be strict weight categories in martial arts.

No, just like armies, people take note when a small army defeats a big army because it is so unusual. Yes. Not because it's normal. Right. You know, if there's like, if it's like, it was two against 10,000 and boy, it would beat those two guys up. More likely what happens. Like if you're severely outnumbered, you will lose almost certainly. Yeah.

Guy doesn't look to be in super great shape.

Yeah.

I'm not saying it's impossible. It's just very unlikely.

- I think you're making the point for me here.

Um,

Sure.

It's fun.

- Yeah, I mean, I could, you know, this could be an exercise in hubris.

Yeah, I mean, there aren't very many ways to actually, if you stick to the rules of jiu-jitsu, like, for example, if you want to put someone in an arm lock, you have to be able to extend their arm. And if somebody is strong enough that you cannot extend their arm, then you're limited to...

Chokes and you can do an arm lock across the groin with both arms and legs like Hoist Gracie did upside down and it was like the third UFC fight.

Pretty severely damaged.

Yeah, and he did upside down arm lock across the groin because he could not do an arm lock, a sort of sidebar arm lock. But after that, people were like, Why is that move? So they were like, We're not going to allow themselves to get an arm lock across the groin without... That was like overconfidence, I think.

Yeah, but there's no way for him to do an arm lock, like a single arm arm lock. He couldn't do it.

If you try to do a lock on the side,

If you try to do an arm bar on the side, one arm across the knee or across the thigh, you have to be able to extend the arm. Essentially, your triceps have to be able to exceed the strength of their bicep is what it comes down to. But if you cannot exceed the strength of their bicep, then you will not be able to do an arm extension.

Where you just have one arm like like yeah, like if it's one arm versus one arm, I.

- Well, in judo that's a very common hold.

- Yeah, one arm. You have your one arm around the neck, and you take their arm and you extend it across.

But if one person is much stronger than another, then that's the move.

- It's a very fast move, 'cause you can take someone right from a throw, drop them on the floor, right into an armbar.

10 seconds.

Yeah, yeah. That's what Gracie did.

Yeah, I mean, it's also just that UFC is not just jiu-jitsu. You can punch people. Right.

Big difference.

Huge.

- Yeah. - There's a lot of unrealistic positions. - If somebody's pounding you in the face, it's pretty hard to be chill, you know? Especially if they're waving, if somebody's got gorilla fists in your face. - Yes. - It's not gonna be a good day.

Yeah.

- I mean most people have not been punched in the face. I've been punched in the face. - That's true. - So, you know, it comes as a surprise.

- There's also like, even the UFC has a lot of limitations, like you can't do 12 o'clock elbows, you know?

- You wanna do 12 o'clock album?

No.

Definitely gonna sting.

Well, I think any elbow in the face is going to be a big wake-up call if you've never had an elbow in the face.

So don't worry about the year off.

Yeah.

- Pull on, yeah.

Conan's like pushing the thing around in a circle.

Can I hit it?

Okay. Yeah.

Or sledgehammer.

Yeah. Anyway, I just, it's a...

Sure.

- It still hurts a little bit actually. I've had like four operations.

Well, I had like.

And I had some childhood injuries. Like I said, I was in some pretty severe fights as a kid. I was almost killed at one point.

It was just in school in South Africa. It's a very violent place. So there's been many involuntary fights. It's just the way it was. But anyway, so I had like, and I had some rugby injuries as well. I saw Salah Talaqa won the World Cup, which is cool, and in rugby. So I think that was like not a good starting position. But then the world champion sumo wrestlers, world champion sumo wrestlers, they did kind of like a demo bout for my birthday. And since it was my birthday, I guess they just, they call up the birthday boy and say like, hey, do you want to, Sumo wrestle. This is where like, it's a similar weight differential. He was 50 heavier than me. So, um, like I don't know, 360, 370 pounds. Um, I knew he would take it easy on me in the first round. So the only way I'm going to knock him over is momentum.

So I got to basically run at him. So I did. I ran at him, did a judo throw, knocked him over, and smashed the disc in my neck in the process. It would be like running at that wall. If you run at a wall, it's...

Yeah.

So it's like you can knock over someone. You can defeat someone bigger than you if you're willing to smash a disc in your neck.

So he wasn't expecting me to beat a total lunatic on round one. And he defeated me obviously in round two and three because he was like, Oh, he knows what to expect. So I had like five minutes of glory and a decade of pain.

- Over time, if there's too much neck rotation, it can damage the--

Man, I had three operations.

I had two artificial disks, and I'm actually in favor of artificial disks. They put the wrong disks in, but then eventually the third one is like, let's just fuse it.

Yeah, twice.

- Yeah, I'm actually in favor of artificial discs, you just need to have the right one. So in my case, at this point I know a lot about it, the C5, C6 right facet is impacting. The facets are like the outriggers, you've got the center core of the spine, facets of the outriggers, and they're shingled. So they're like one on top of the other like this. There's a little nerve that goes out in between the C5, C6. And if those vertebrae come close together, they grind the nerve. So they just sort of start shearing the nerve. Now... So my C5, C6 right facet, it shows up clear as day on like a technetium scan. So if you could do like a radioactive scan with technetium, it's very clear where the problem is.

So what should have been done was a simple hinge, like, you know, basically to move the move the VotoBriff, basically the C5 VotoBriff, back about maybe an eighth of an inch to sort of unload the facet, and then put a simple hinge, so just rotation. But I was given what is called a Mobi-C, which is a more mobile disc. The Mobi-C allows it not just rotation, but also translation. So it can move back and forth. So that then didn't solve the impacting of the C5-C6, because it could slide. And when it would slide forward, the C5-C6 would bang and crunch the nerve.

The disc is like a gummy bear, basically, normally. So it allows rotation and translation. So it's like sitting on a jello pillow.

It's like a rubber desk.

So the natural disk allows for rotation and translation. So they basically put a disk that had too much mobility in and did not solve the C5, C6 NOVA impact. So then the third time around, it's like, listen, I just don't want to take a chance here. Let's just fuse it.

No, I'm fine. I'm like, I can look right and left. It's okay.

I'm not like, you know, totally stiff now.

No.

Wow.

He's in good shape.

Yeah.

Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm not too worried about that.

Well, I guess it'll be okay then.

Yeah.

Yeah.

- I mean, he's checking out.

Yeah, there's no way this is checking out. Do you think so? Yeah. Bawk, bawk, bawk.

Suck, suck, suck. Suck, suck, suck. I'll go to him into fighting using toy.

- I didn't agree in the first place.

He will respond to a taunt like that.

- How can he resist?

- Exactly, let's go full schoolyard taunting.

Win. No problem. Sounds good.

Fight for civilization.

Shami and I'll do it.

No, I train a little bit.

I mean, I don't have to train. I could do it like tomorrow.

- I tried going to his house actually. - Did you really? - Yeah, 'cause he lives in Palo Alto. And we're doing some Tesla full self-driving testing. So I'm like, well, gotta pick a destination.

- Yeah, basically. He's not far, I think he's like three miles away from the Tesla California headquarters. - Wow. - But I don't know, there's nobody there.

- According to a spokesman, he was traveling.

- Yeah, literally, any time. I just thought it was funny to go like, I'm coming over to your house.

I get you.

So anyway, he didn't answer.

Too bad. Yeah, too bad.

I mean, I think it would be-- well, actually, Dana White thinks it would be a really big ticket fight.

- Yeah, I mean the proceeds could go to charity and stuff. - It would be fucking huge. - Yeah, it'd be crazy. People would wanna see what the hell's going on.

Yeah.

Let's go.

Let's do it.

- No, I'll do it anywhere. I literally sit anywhere, anytime.

The sphere's great. I was just there. - The sphere's amazing. - It's amazing.

Yeah, I was there on it.

The inside's even better.

I was there on Saturday night and it's awesome. Like, it's really good. I think it might be the best show on earth.

The art in the show that I saw on Saturday night was incredibly good. Who was it? I don't know who did all the art, but...

- Oh, it was U2. - Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. - But I mean, I've been to U2 concerts, and U2's great, but the sphere is really, like, if U2 hadn't been there, it would still be great. - Yeah. - Yeah, U2's, it's like a, you know, like on Sunday there was a movie, they played a movie there. - Whoa.

Yeah, in all directions.

I mean, it's like actually being in virtual reality. In fact, it was so wild, the Saturday night one especially, that you step outside after the show and you're like, why is reality so boring?

It's Darren Aronofsky's thing.

I saw that on Sunday.

It's really great.

Yeah.

Yeah, it's really good.

- When I say it's like,

I think the Saturday Night Show, and obviously YouTube adds to it, but like I said, the sphere is really special in and of itself. I think it's probably the best show I've ever seen.

And handed it to Dolan.

They really play with perspective.

- 'Cause it's round, but it doesn't look round. - Right. - So it'll simulate like a square, like all sorts of shapes.

It's really cool. Yeah.

- I like these epic things.

It's really cool.

Sure.

Okay.

I mean, the spirit did remind me of being like a modern day Coliseum.

Yeah, yeah, totally. Yeah.

Yeah. Let's go. Let's go. Are you not entertained?

You'll be fucking hurt.

Let's do it.

I mean, I signed on to a letter that someone else wrote. I didn't think that people would actually pause.

- I mean, yeah. I mean, making some sort of digital super intelligence seems like it could be dangerous.

Platforms.

No, that's actually what I think the biggest danger is for AI is that if AI is implicitly programmed, I don't think they do it explicitly, but implicitly programmed with values that have led to the destruction of downtown San Francisco, and a bunch of these AI companies are either in San Francisco or in the san francisco bay area. then you could implicitly program an AI to believe that extinction of humanity is what it should try to do. I mean, if you take that guy who was on the front pages of the New York Times, and you take his philosophy, which is prevalent in San Francisco, the AI could conclude, like he did, where he literally says there are 8 billion people in the world, it would be better if there were none. and engineer that outcome.

- It's a risk. Yeah, it is a risk. And like if you query chat GPT, I mean it's pretty woke, you know?

So, people did experiments like write a poem praising Donald Trump and it won't, but if you ask write a poem praising Joe Biden and it will.

So I'm like, you know.

It's programmed to be that way.

If you say what is the most likely outcome of AI, I think the most likely outcome, to be specific about it, is a good outcome. Most likely a good outcome. But it's not for sure. So I think we have to be careful how we program the AI and make sure that it is not accidentally anti-human. So... You know, the accidentally extinctionist AI. You wouldn't want that.

- Well, that is kind of how it works, is that these, what they call large language models, but it's really just a big pile of numbers. And how you tune those numbers matters. It's like pruning a tree. You could have a mighty oak, it could be a little bonsai or a mighty oak. So, depending on how you prune it. - Right.

Yeah.

- It's something we should be concerned about. - I actually will need to go, oh shit, sorry, I need to go.

Yeah, because I have to go to the airport. I have to fly. I'm flying to London.

Yeah, just for AI safety. The AI safety conference in London.

I'm leaving in about an hour and a half.

Well... - I don't know. I mean, I'm just generally concerned about AI safety, but it's like, what should we do about it? I don't know. Have some kind of regulatory oversight of some kind. It's like, you can't just go build a nuclear bomb in your backyard. That's against the law, and you'll get thrown in prison if you do that.

I think maybe more dangerous than a nuclear bomb.

I don't know if that the we should just be concerned about AI anti-human. That's sort of the thing that matters. So, potentially. I'm saying it's like letting a genie out of a bottle. It's sort of like a magic genie that can make wishes come true. Except usually when they tell those stories, that doesn't end well for the person who let the genie out of the bottle.

Yeah, I mean, it's something that is indistinguishable from intelligence and intelligent life form, certainly.

Yeah. Yeah. Well, I think that's, we're on the cusp of an artificial intelligence revolution. And, um, For the longest time, or for a very long time, we've been the smartest creatures on Earth. That's been our defining characteristic. I mean, speaking of martial arts, I don't think anyone should challenge a silverback gorilla to a fight. Even if you're very good at martial arts, that thing's going to kill you. It literally walks on its fists. If those fists meet your face, game over. So we're not stronger than a gorilla. We're not faster than other animals.

We're smarter. Now what happens when there's something way smarter than us? Where does it go?

You know, that was aspirationally a force we could.

Yeah.