Buffett needs little introduction. He's the godfather of modern day investing. For nearly 50 years, Buffett has run Berkshire Hathaway, which owns over 60 companies like Geico and Dairy Queen, plus minority stakes in Apple, Coca-Cola, and many others. His $82.5 billion fortune makes him the third richest person in the world, and he's vowed to give nearly all of it away. The Oracle of Omaha is here to talk about what shaped his investment strategy and how to master today's market. i'm andy serwer.  welcome to a special edition of Influencers from Omaha, Nebraska.  it's my pleasure to welcome berkshire hathaway ceo, warren buffett.  warren, welcome.

Thanks for coming.

Very long run.

Well, I look at a lot of figures just in connection with our businesses. I like to get numbers. So I'm getting reports weekly in some businesses. But that doesn't tell me what the economy is going to do six months from now or three months from now. It tells me what's going on now with our businesses. And it really doesn't make any difference in what I do today in terms of buying stocks or buying businesses, what those numbers tell me. They're interesting, but they're not guides to me. If we buy a business, we're gonna hold it forever. So we're gonna have good years, bad years, in between years, maybe a disastrous year some year. And we care a lot about the price. We do not care about the next 12 months.

I've been surprised by all kinds of things in the last 10 years about the economy. I mean, I don't think there was any economist I've ever read that talked about negative interest rates for long periods of time. I mean, if you go back and read Keynes or you read Samuelson, you read any of them, they do not get into a negative rate environment. I think now there's still $11 trillion of government debt around the world that's at a negative rate. We've never seen it before, and we've never seen at least the conventional wisdom on it, a sustained period of long and growing deficits while the economy is getting better, extremely low interest rates, and really very little inflation. So something different is happening, but something different happens all the time. And that's one reason. economic predictions just don't enter into our decisions.

Charlie Munger, my partner, and I, in 54 years now, we've never made a decision based on an economic prediction. make business predictions about what individual businesses will do over time and we compare that to what we have to pay for them but we have never said yes to something because we thought the economy was going to do well in the next year or two years and we've never said no to anything because we were right in the middle of a panic even if the price was right.

Well, I pay none in the sense of as a guideline to doing anything. It's entertainment. I mean, it's like going to a variety show or something like that. And I just don't know of any economist that actually has bought businesses successfully or done well in stocks. Paul Samuelson did. You may know he was a big shareholder of Berkshire. They make guesses and there's so many variables. I mean, in the hard sciences, you know that if an apple falls from a tree, that it isn't going to change over the centuries because of anything or political developments or 400 other variables that go in. But when you get into economics, there's so many variables. And the truth is, you've got to expect good times and bad times in business.

And if you were to buy an auto dealership and you're you know wherever you live locally or a mcdonald's franchise or anything like that you wouldn't try and time the purchase you try and make the right purchase at the right price and you want to be sure you got a good business but you wouldn't say i'm going to buy it because growth this year is going to be three percent instead of 2.8 percent or something of the sort.

Maybe you do.

It depends on their personal situation. If you're working in something where you're living off your your paycheck from week to week, you want to have a little cash around and you certainly don't want to have a credit card that's maxed out or anything like that. But if your house is paid off, if you don't have big living expenses, you got a portfolio of decent diversified businesses, you don't really need any cash.

Yeah, yeah, I've got responsibility. You know, we've got insurance claims. We could have hurricanes that, you know, would happen. All kinds of things where you might have to pay out billions of dollars. And I've got over a million people that own shares that are counting on me. to run the place so we get through periods like that. But if I were retired, I had, say, a million dollar portfolio of stocks that was paying me $30,000 a year in dividends or something of the sort, and my children were growing, the house was paid off and everything. I wouldn't worry too much about having a lot of cash around.

Well, if you have to closely follow a company, you shouldn't own it. Really? No. I mean, if you buy a business, if you buy a farm, you go up and look every couple of weeks to see how far the corn is up. And you worry too much about whether somebody says this is going to be a year of low prices because exports are being affected or anything like that. You buy a farm. And you hold it for-- I've got one farm that I bought in the 1980s. And my son runs it. I've been there once. It doesn't grow faster if I go and stare at it. I can't cheer for it. More effort, more effort, or something like that. And I know there's going to be some years when prices are going to be good and some when prices aren't going to be good. I know there's years when yields will be better than others. But I bought the farm. I don't care about economic predictions or anything of the sort. I do care that over the years it's tended to in terms of rotating crops.

I hope yields get better, which they generally have. In fact, that farm 100 years ago would have probably produced 30 bushels, maybe 35 bushels of corn per acre. Now in a good year, you know, it'd be 200. I mean, we've really made progress in this country. That's one reason commodity prices go back a couple hundred years. They've moved so little is because we've just gotten better and better at whether it's cotton or whether it's corn or soybeans or all kinds of things. And you and I have benefited from that.

Well, it's a long-term investment. And if you owned the best auto dealership in town, the best brand, and you had somebody good running it, you wouldn't drop by every day and say, you know, how many people have come in today? Or, you know, I think interest rates are going up a little. Maybe we'll slow down our sales or anything. No, you buy it knowing there's 365 days a year, and you're going to own it for 20 years, so that's 7,300 days. And, you know, they're going to... Things are going to be different from day to day and year to year. You shouldn't buy it if the day to day stuff is important.

Well, I--

If I knew it, I'd have bought a lot more than 200. Now, that's not a big purchase for us, actually. Now, we will buy Berkshire when we have lots of excess cash. All the needs of the business are taken care of. We spent $14 billion on property, plant, and equipment last year, way more than depreciation. So we take care of the needs of the business. Then we have excess cash. And if we find invest, we'd love to do is find other businesses to buy. But if our stock, if I think the stock and my partner Charlie Munger think the stock is selling below intrinsic business value, we will buy in stock.

Well, we thought so, yeah. But what's really intriguing is when it goes down a lot. I mean, when you're buying dollar bills for 60 or 70 cents, which periodically you get a chance to do in stocks, then assuming you've got the cash, you don't want to ever get so that the that some surprise could really take you out in some way. But if we've got excess cash, we'll buy it as fast as we can.

Yeah, exactly. But it's, you know, if you and I own a McDonald's franchise together and it's worth a million dollars and you own 50 of it and you come to me and you say, I'll sell out for $400,000, you know, I'll buy you out.

- It could be.

But if you want $600,000, I'll just say, come back tomorrow.

Well, you'll have some people that misbehave and respect any activity. I mean, so it really wouldn't have much to do with buybacks. I think buybacks, the degree to which they've been part of nefarious activity, and I've observed them for a lot of years, are very close to zero. But that just may be that there aren't enough opportunities. That article did not, I didn't follow the conclusion on it. I mean, you're distributing money to shareholders. Essentially, you can do it by dividends, and presumably American business should distribute money to its owners occasionally. And we do it through buybacks. We've done some. And we don't do it through dividends. But most companies do it through having a dividend policy. And then if they have money beyond the needs of the business, then I think if their stock is underpriced, then it makes nothing but sense.

Well, they do restrict you a little in terms of if you're some general rule of the SEC, if you're having some kind of, this isn't quite the right word, but manipulative activity or anything like that in the stock. But no, I don't think the government should decide your dividend policy. I don't even think they should direct your capital investments. They can make it enticing to make certain kinds of investments. capital investments, which they do with renewable energy, for example. I mean, the government has interest in fostering certain developments in this country over time. And they do-- there used to be a special oil depletion allowance, you know, 50 years ago and so on. That was more politics than it was governmental policy. But certainly renewables are a prime example of that. But the idea of directing whether you are entitled to return cash to shareholders and the manner in which you do it I don't think really makes a lot of sense.

It's hard to win with just a billionaire vote.

That's funny. But I admire him enormously. I wish he had run. I want to be very clear on that.

- Well, I think a business executive can be the right person, but I don't think that because they're a business executive that you give them extra points.

And number one, I want a president that wakes up every morning and realizes that the greatest threat to a country which has got all kinds of things going for it are weapons of mass destruction and that we live in a world where people, organizations, and occasionally countries could have people that would like to wipe out a large percentage of the American people or maybe other countries as well and that you now have capabilities which I always thought until recently I might classify as nuclear chemical and biological but I think you have to add cyber now you know if you have some evil genius someplace that that for crazy reasons just like happened with anthrax back, who knows what motivates somebody that starts sending anthrax out in my letters.

And if you have somebody that thinks it'd be great great to send a false alarm to the Russians and to the US that the other side was launching or something of the sort. It's a very, very dangerous world. It's a wonderful world, but it has dangers now that started in August of 1945 and when Einstein said, This changes everything in the world except how men think. So I want a president that has that same filter that all of these other things are important, but protecting the country and reducing the chance of successful use of weapons of mass destruction against us is the number one job. And I think most of the presidents, I've talked to a couple of them about it over the years, I really think that they do realize that they may get lost in the events of every day as they go along.

And then beyond that, I want a president that has two objectives with the economy. One is to make sure that this marvelous goose we have keeps laying more golden eggs, and I want a president that also feels that if GDP is $60,000 per capita in the United States, that nobody should get left behind. We've got a market system that works marvelously in turning out more goods and services, better ones year after year. Done it all through my life.

Well, they'll tell me what I want to hear. I want to hear what they tell people who disagree with them on the subject. I always like to ask a candidate, they usually finesse me some way or another, but I say, what are you for that the majority of your followers are against? I know you really believe in that. And that's really the test, but I'm not sure that, except under some kind of sodium pedicol or something, you're going to get a great answer to that.

If I really want to get, and that's why Bernie Sanders was so successful. I mean, 90 of the people who voted for Bernie Sanders had probably not heard of him two years earlier. But they felt they knew exactly what he would do. I mean, they felt he was authentic. And if you asked him what he was for that most people might be against, he would tell you.

We'll find out over time, but we did pay too much, in my view, for Kraft. We didn't pay too much for Heinz. So when we started out, it was originally a non-public partnership between us. But we did pay too much, in my view, for Kraft. And there's not much you can do about things if you pay too much. And secondly-- There's always been a struggle between the retailer and brands I mean if if I've got a terribly weak brand and I want to get into Walmart I'm not gonna be able to do it. You know, I mean that's all for all kinds of crazy concessions, you know that and I want to be in Walmart if I have some sort of super packaged goods. The negotiation is way different if you have something essential versus nonessential. Ten years ago, Costco tried to get rid of Coca-Cola.

Costco's got terrific loyalty among customers, and their own Kirkland brand is a $39 billion brand now, and it moves. from category to category and they only started in 1992. So they know brands and they, but in the end they put Coca-Cola back in. If it had been Royal Crown Cola they wouldn't have had to put it back in. So there's always that struggle between the brands. I mean, and there always will be. But the retailer's net, it has been moving in their direction. particularly, I think, because of the Amazon revolution. First Walmart, and then... Walmart, yeah. But it's been accentuated, I think, We have a new retailing environment now. I mean, it isn't like it goes from night to day, but it moves somewhat.

And brands that people have spent billions of dollars developing and sponsoring TV shows or sponsoring radio shows in the old days. Campbell's Soup was always on there with Jack Benny or something, you know, when I was a kid. big and it built brands and people like obviously like the product too but people are more willing to change and it's harder It's a somewhat different world than what, it is night and day. I mean, you are very unlikely to keep changing brands every day. But it really surprised me that Gillette lost position. I mean, men don't like to experiment much. Women are better experimenting, but, you know, When you were a kid, Gillette Cavalcade of Sports was your pal and brought you the Rose Bowl and the World Series and all that sort of thing. You didn't, you just shaved with Gillette the rest of your life.

And you still do to a great degree. But it's not exactly the same as it was even five years ago or so when we bought Kraft.

Well, I always admired Jeff. I mean, I met him twenty years ago or so. I thought he was something special, but I didn't realize you could go from books to what's happened there. No, I mean, he had a vision and executed it in an incredible way. Something that it would not have, you know, but there's a lot of games I miss. I would have missed, you know, I would have missed Microsoft even if I got into Nobel earlier or something. Those just aren't my games. I don't worry about the things that I miss that are outside my circle of competence. evaluating. I do, I have missed things who are within my circle and that's a terrible mistake. Those are my biggest mistakes, you haven't seen them. And, but I don't, it's not a mistake because I miss Netscape or something like that at all. I would say that maybe 5 of the companies or 10 of the companies at most are within an area of my circle of competence. There's something I should be able to understand.

Well, if you're running a deficit getting close to 5 when things are really good, you know, that's a new world. And neither the Republicans or Democrats are particularly concerned about it. And we're not having a lot of inflation. That wasn't supposed to happen, you know. But it's happening. That's why I say you don't really, you don't want to get hung up on trying to make economic analysis because nobody's any good at it. You don't get rich doing that. If you look at-- I mentioned that Forbes list. If you get on the list, the number of people that have done that by economic analysis, I think you're just about zelch on there.

Going the other way but I think I think I think the earned income tax credit is the best way to put money in the pockets of people that don't fit well into the market system but that are perfectly decent citizens and that have made a good bit of the success something like I've had with Berkshire or something possible it wouldn't have happened without the America we have and if you go back Go back 200 years and we're all working on, 80 of us are working on farms. The person that's the best at that, working on that farm, whatever it may be, is worth maybe twice the ones that's the worst. I mean, that's the difference between super talent and no talent in the farm economy, picking cotton or whatever it may be. Now, if you're the best farmer, middleweight fighter in the world, you may get 20 or 30 million dollars.

And if you are just a good citizen, raise nice kids, help in the neighborhood and everything else, else, but you don't have market related skills. You'd be good on that farm still, and you would be earning something comparable to most of the people around you. But you don't have something now as it gets more and more specialized, and it's going to continue to get more specialized. You want two things for that person. You want them to have a decent life. I mean, they live in a country with 60,000 of GDP per person. You want them to have a decent life, and they can. I also think you want them to have a feeling of accomplishment. So you want them to have a job, assuming that they're not handicapped in some way. You want them to have a job. But the minimum wage would be one way to say, well, we'll make sure that they have enough money in their pocket. But that's got a lot of effects in disturbing the market system. They just need more cash. They don't need a higher wage. They need more cash in their pocket.

And the government, at a relatively low cost, can provide a decent living for anybody that's working 40 hours a week. and has a couple of children. And we've gone in that direction and it's sort of bipartisan. I mean, I find both Republicans and Democrats for it. I think it would be better not to have one annual payment, you know, that they get it monthly. And I think there's various things you could do, but you want it. You want them to feel part of the system and you want to get them, have them get as, as more and more of these golden eggs are laid, you want them to get, get, get a little more of their share.

You want more money in the pockets of everybody that's willing to work or is unable to work. And we can do it. A rich family would do that. If I had six or seven kids and I had some business I wanted to pass on, you'd pick the most able person to run it because that's the market system to do that. But you'd make sure that all seven of the family participated. You might give more to the one that kept producing the golden eggs. You would. You wouldn't just say to the one at the lowest end, who might be the best kid of all in most respects, he's the one that shares with everybody and does all kinds of things. You wouldn't say to that him or her that, too bad, but that's just the way the market system works. Go have your spouse get a job and look for housing someplace.

Idea? No. I didn't worry about a name. We could have gone on as a no-name operation for 10 years as far as I'm concerned. No, that is... We've got a wonderful partnership in the sense that it's large and has reasonable market muscle with more than a million employees, among the three of us. We've got three CEOs that can make things get done in organizations that are so big that normally they wouldn't get very bureaucratic. If you try to do this with many big companies, you'd have legal weighing in and public relations weighing in. We don't have any of that stuff. They may have them in certain areas, but Jamie isn't going to worry about doing that sort of thing, and neither is Jeff. So we've got a unity of commitment and an ability to execute on the commitment.

The only problem is you've got a three $3.4 trillion industry, which is as much as the federal government raises every year, that basically feels pretty good about the system. As we went around talking to people, to find a leader for the group, for example. Everybody says the system, it turns out very good medicine, but you can't go from 5 of GDP to 18 without really making it less competitive among other things in the world. So everybody thought the system needed some adjustment, just not their part of the system. And that's very human. I'd do the same thing, I'm sure, if I was in the same place. So there's an enormous resistance to change while a similar acknowledgement that change will be needed.

And of course, if the private sector doesn't supply that over a period of time, people will say then, we give up, we gotta turn this over to government, which will probably be even worse.

Todd really does all the work at our point. If this works, give Todd 100 of the credit from the Berkshire standpoint.

No.

The plan is to support a very very very good thinker on this subject who's once is a practicing physician and who commands the respect of the medical community to in effect figure out some way so that we can deliver even better care and have people feel better about their care too I mean they have to perceive that they're receiving better care over time and stop the march upward of cost relative to the country's output. We've got this incredible economic machine, but we shouldn't be spending 18 when other countries are doing something pretty complex in terms of doctors per capita, hospital beds per capita.

The very top stuff in medicine, I think, is very much concentrated in this country, and that's great. I want us to be the leader, but I think we're paying If we're paying seven extra points of GDP, that's 1.4 trillion a year.

- No, I don't, I mean, they're trying. And Congress generally, I mean, you talk to the average congressman, they regard it as a problem, and they see specific instances of drug prices or something like that. It's a big problem to change. I mean, the trouble is it intersects in so many ways. And that's why we've got Gawande heading it, and we've got three bigger size organizations backing him. We're not trying to do it to make money. I mean, that is not a goal that we end up with some business that we make money off of.

Well, he'll be talking to everybody, but it is, His game plan is not something we're going to try and lay out because it's in his head to some degree. I mean, obviously we selected him by hearing and reading and so on what he's done. But he'll learn as we go. We will conduct certain experiments, or he will, and try out a community where one of us has a lot of employees maybe. There are various ways to experiment.

- Probably 50 years ago I looked at a few Bartlett's quotations, but I read a lot.

I mean, you ought to remember something. You don't remember what happened yesterday, but you remember the old stuff. You've got a lot of interesting quotations in your head.

Yeah, I was too early, actually. If you look back, I was very active in the last half of September and early October. And then I wrote that article in later October. And I knew it was going to get bad. I wrote the article it was going to get bad. But I didn't think the stock market would react as much as it did between then and March. So I had more or less used up our powder well before the bottom was hit.

Well, actually, I think Larry actually is doing a good job.  larry kolb.  yeah, larry kolb at the Danaher is a good sale.  and I think his priorities are straight, and I think he's a very able guy, and he's on the right track.  and I'm a fan of GE's in the sense that... We're a big buyer from them. We're a big seller to them. I've known the managers. I mean, Jack Welch is a very good friend of mine. We don't agree on politics 100%, but we have a lot of fun together. I love the guy. So I've got a great desire for GE to do well. It just hasn't looked that attractive to me. Right.

Yeah, the equity interest.

No, those are the pilot flying Jamesbury. They're companies that under GAAP accounting we have to record under an equity method. We own more than 20 but we don't control them. And so it's treated under GAAP accounting as a special category and it didn't fit well in the other grove so I had to make it a separate grove by itself. It's not that significant a grove.

Is that? Well it depends on circumstances. I mean there's sometimes when the float from insurance can be very valuable. There's sometimes when the ability to use production tax credits we'll say in the utility business but have them on our as part of our consolidated return helps. But that varies a lot. But it is a plus. And we can move capital Well, take a business like See's Candy, which we bought 40-odd years ago. It's a wonderful little business. It throws off capital. We've tried 50 different ways to expand geographically, do all kinds of things. Doesn't work. And we'll try it again and it won't work. But we can move that capital to help buy the NSF railroad or do all kinds of other things. So we've got a seamless and tax efficient way of moving capital where it's needed.

And we've got some companies that really chew up capital and we got others that kick it off and we can move it from one part. If you try to do that with your investments, you incur some taxes as you go along doing it and it's less efficient than what we've got.

Well, it makes a difference. The tax cut we get, for example, our utilities, as I mentioned in the report, that goes to the customers. That's just the nature of utility regulation. But, but net, we were a significant beneficiary. 17445000 From the tax cut, basically, 17445200 let's just say we had one class 17445300 of stock, we got two. 17445500 You and I own a business 17445600 together. 17445600 And we think we own all the 17445800 stock, but the truth is before 17450000 the tax cut, the government had 17450100 a 35 share of the stock on 17450300 income. 17450400 It didn't have a share of the 17450600 assets, but it had a share of 17450700 the income. 17450700 If it wanted to change it to 17450800 40, And if we had a private business, if we had a McDonald franchise together, an auto dealership together, the third shareholder, that invisible shareholder, the governor, just handed us back a bunch of the shares of stock. And our shareholders benefited, and a lot of other shareholders benefited.

No, they don't have the interaction. They each run a separate business. Ajit does not think about the other businesses. He thinks about the insurance business, and Greg does not think about the insurance business at all. And I think about the money and the capital and so on. But they're running two very big businesses. I mean, Ajit's business, you know, has You get all told at least a couple hundred billion of assets. And Greg's business has 150 billion of revenues. I mean, these are-- they both would fit up there toward the top 10 or so in the country in terms of value. So maybe the top 15. But they're very big businesses.

- Oh, no, no, no. Charlie and I have a partnership thinking about the whole place and we've done it forever, you know, and we still do.

Well, they have $13 billion each, including pension funds, our pension funds, that they run. 173 billion we had at year end in equities, they had, well we had 173 bucks, we had another 8 billion in pension funds. So of the 180 or so, they had 26 between them that they're managing. They got total discretion on that. They don't ask me. At the month end, I look and see what they did. They don't do much, they don't do a lot of trading or anything, but I look to see what changes they made. Todd, for example, I mean, he made a couple of small investments in private placement type operations. And I know what the businesses do, but I can't tell you their names. That's his baby.

No, that was not something they did.

Yeah, well, that's a good question, to which I do not have a good answer. I know enough about the cloud to know I don't know enough about the cloud.

No. Well, I mean, I may read it accidentally, but I don't seek it out to read, I'll put it that way. But it just doesn't make any difference at all. If I spent time reading that, I wouldn't have time to read 10-Ks. And we're not going to do anything different. I don't know what we're going to earn. As I put in the annual report, and I really think this is unique, we do not prepare financial statements monthly for Berkshire. There's just no other company would do it. There's no sense doing it. I know where the money is and I know how the companies are doing generally, but what difference does it make? Because I'm not going to try and hit any number for the quarter by having a sale on insurance or doing something even worse. And Charlie, he knows where we stand and we know what businesses are doing well, which aren't, and we certainly know where the money is.

- No, but I don't disagree with that. I mean, I'm glad that somebody understands this.

Yeah. Well, that's important. You know, 54, well, if you go back to when I started my partnership in 1956 that Berkshire came out of, there were seven people sitting there at a table having dinner, relatives primarily, and I said, here's the partnership agreement. It's done under Nebraska law. It's four or five pages. You don't need to read it. But I said, here's a little half-page, what I call the ground rule. And I want you to read these, and if you feel okay about that, about the interaction, what the expectations are, and all of that sort of thing, then we'll join forces. And if you don't, it's fine. Other people have, you know, but we shouldn't be partners. I mean, you know, if I'm going to have a partnership with somebody, I want to be compatible. And when you have a... Public company, you can't control who comes in. I can't control some guy that comes in and thinks we were going to pay big dividends or split the stock or something like that.

So by my actions and my communications and everything, I want to attract the people that, from the public market, that I want, and I want to keep the others away. Costco was built. Sol Price, who started the Price Club and that thing, He sat down and figured out the customer he didn't want. And he set up a system that would keep away the customer he didn't want. Who did he not want? He didn't want somebody buying a quart of milk with somebody behind them with a basket of $200 worth of goods waiting for that. So he put in a membership fee. And by putting in a membership fee, he killed all the drop-in business, the business that belonged to the 7-Eleven. We want Berkshire to keep out people who have expectations about us that are different than ours. I mean, good for them, and I hope they find somebody they fit. But if you're going to run a church, you want your seats to be filled by people that generally want to listen to your form of religion.

And you don't want it to change every week and say, gee, I need it. and I'll go out and talk to a bunch of investors and get them to come to my church this Sunday. Because there's only so many seats in the church. There's 1,645,000 or so, A equivalent chairs, and those are the seats. And I want them occupied by people that are on the same page I am.

They're businesses I understand, and I like the price at which they're selling relative to their future prospects. I think 10 years from now that they'll be worth more money, and I feel there's a very high probability I'm right. And I don't think they'll turn out to be the best investments at all of the whole panoply of things you could do, but I'm pretty sure that they won't disappoint me.

No, it doesn't change the insurance business.

It would change our insurance business if we were writing 20-year policies. I mean, if there was something that changed life mortality adversely to the interests of a life insurance company, you're stuck with a policy for 20 years if you write the life insurance policy. And you'll keep paying your premiums if it's adverse to me. That's what's happened in long-term care insurance, for example.

But when you write a policy for one year at a time, see what the developments are and if you know it cars for example Are much safer to drive than they used to be there used to be 15 deaths per hundred million miles driven now There's a little over one on the other hand they become much more expensive to fix I mean that little little side right and it's a new mirror which used to cost ten bucks You know now a thousand bucks or something like that so so you have things that are changing in terms of your writing collision insurance, you gotta allow for the fact that the windshield, the bumper, all kinds of things, or the side view mirror and all that are way more expensive. But if you're writing liability, you know that people aren't gonna die as often.

So climate change is like, climate's been changing, but the truth is that you now can buy really big catastrophe limits cheaper than you could buy them in 2005 or thereabouts, allowing for changes in the dollar and concentration of population. So, so far, rates have come down. That's the reason we've gotten out of the cat business to a great degree. We were a very big writer of cat business 10 or 12 years ago. We aren't out of the cat business because of climate change. We're out because the prices aren't right. And the world will change and that's got very serious consequences but it won't change that much from year to year. We've done very well during a period of some climate change.

Well, I think cyber poses real risks to humanity, forgetting about the problem of even misinformation. I'm just thinking of, you know, we have railroads running over 22,000 miles of track, and some of them are carrying ammonia and some of them are carrying, you know, chlorine and things. We have to carry them. We have no choice about that, and we're required by law to carry them. I would rather do that in a non-cyber world than a cyber world. There are all kinds of things. The problem about something like cyber is that it's moving and It's just unpredictable whether you'll get some crazy guy like stuck the anthrax in there. What they can do becomes magnified. When you saw what 19 guys did on 9/11.

tools in the hands or potentially in the hands of either crazy individuals, crazy groups, or even a few crazy guys. governments are really something. We don't necessarily know what all the tools they have are, and that is moving all the time. Again, Einstein said, I know not with what weapons World War III will be fought, but World War IV will be fought with sticks and stones. It's a dangerous world.

Well, I think it has room for improvement. Now, he, he, and he would say the same thing. I mean, it's just some people have a talent for interesting quotes and others, others have a little bit more of a blocker up there that says this can get me in a problem. But he's, he's a remarkable guy. But I don't see I just don't see the necessity to communicate. I've never, I think I've got seven tweets because a friend of mine signed me up for it and she's called me about a hundred times saying can I tweet this or that and I've said yes to her seven times I guess or something like that. I've never actually written one myself. I don't even know how to do it.

He joined the Giving Pledge once or twice, but that's a lot of years ago, seven or eight years ago. He hasn't come to our annual gathering, so I haven't seen him for seven or eight years.

I don't have any comment on that. In terms of political activity, I don't put my citizenship in a blind trust. So when the election comes around, I'll do something. On the other hand, people will interpret things I say about any president as to some extent coming from Berkshire, and they don't come from Berkshire. I'm just an individual. So I think-- I'm glad to talk about China, but I can't talk to you about that part of it.

- Well, I think that China and the United States absolutely are destined to be the superpowers, you know, beyond my great-grandchildren lives. And we'll always be competitors, and we'll be competitors in business, we'll be competitors in ideas, all kinds of ways. There's no other way it would be. And we just have to make sure that that, competition doesn't get us to a point where we don't realize that the best world is one in which both the United States and China prosper. I mean, we do not want to have an island of prosperity in the rest of the world envious of us in a nuclear age. And China doesn't, Russia doesn't.

I mean, we all recognize the dangers of letting competition get out of control and become, you can be competitors without being enemies. And that's what all powerful nations have to realize over time. I mean, it's different than 200 years ago when you could have some dominant country. And they may have done some things that you didn't like, but it didn't threaten the existence of the world. You really threaten the existence of the world as we know it if-- important countries do not constantly recognize that they can compete, they can fight over certain things, but they can't regard it as essentially the equivalent of war.

Well, I don't think conflicts are unavoidable, but I think it has to be active thinking on the part of every hugely powerful country. And Russia is hugely powerful. I mean, 90 of the nuclear arms in the world are between U.S. and Russia. So they have to recognize that the best world for them is one where they don't try and grab all the apples basically and we have to recognize that and we can't in the United States we can't think that either our ideas run the world you know or we start getting aggressive about things and China can't think that Russia can't think that and That's obvious. You just have to make things, you got to be sure things don't escalate.

World War I, you know, with an Archduke, you know, I mean, you get these, you can get chance incidents and you really want to, I asked one of the presidents one time, you know, in terms of what he would do if awakened in the middle of the night with somebody coming coming to them and saying, absolutely, somebody else has launched. Would you launch on that? And you've got 10 minutes to decide. I wouldn't want to have that responsibility. But you want to make sure you don't get to that.

- As sure as we would. Yeah, we would.

We've been made aware of some things, yeah.

- Well, I'd wanna be sure I understood the accounting, obviously. Some businesses that'd be easier to do than others. But I know the laws, the customs, the accounting, the people better in the United States than any place else. So there's some small hurdle in many countries to get over, which I can get over. I mean, but I just don't, it's just not as easy as looking at something where I already know the answer, you know, from previous transactions or something of the sort. So it's easier to make a big acquisition in the United States. I have to do more work if I'm looking beyond the borders. But I love the idea of doing it. When we made the acquisition in Israel a dozen years ago, I didn't know what the tax rates were there. I didn't know what corporate law.

I suspected that it would all be answered satisfactorily, which it was. But I didn't just automatically know it.

- I don't think so. No, I... - It's out there. - I'm open, yeah. We made two decent sized stock acquisitions there and that worked out fine. Well, PetroChina and BYD. Yeah, BYD was Charlie's, but Charlie's very well versed on China.

Well, I wrote an article about it for Fortune and the trade situation many years ago when our deficit got to be large in relation to GDP. I don't think it's essential to have a trade balance, but I think that a trade deficit gets large and it looks like you have no way out from it, that that can be a real problem over time. I mean, you're shipping little pieces of paper to the rest of the world, and they're shipping you goods. I mean, people are working making underwear or shoes someplace, and they get little pieces of paper from us. It gets very tempting if you've done that enough to make sure that those little pieces of paper aren't worth very much over time when they want to cash them for something.

So you don't want to have, we don't have any problem running trade deficits, but if we ran really large ones and we sort of worked ourselves into a box where they were, we didn't really have a solution to get the numbers down it could be a problem and I wrote about it one time but it's it's kind of a nice thing actually just I mean wouldn't you like to have something where you just add little pieces of paper and somebody keep supplying you with their food or whatever You're right. We call them credit cards.

Well, I don't worry about in terms of global markets. I mean, China's going to grow a lot over time. I mean, they, when you think of what's happened, oh, this is 1949 or, you know, but there's been nothing really like it. I mean, you had 20 of the world's population at that time, perhaps, really hadn't remotely achieved their potential. I mean, the intellectual capacity, they had decent soil, all kinds of things. I mean, and what's happened there almost is beyond belief. And that game's not over, but we've had incredible developments in the United States. I mean, you know, real GDP per capita is six times what it was the day I was born in the United States. Six times. And we thought we were a pretty developed country then and everything. No, my parents wouldn't have believed it.

I mean, they would have thought, you know, that this kid has really got it made, you know, being born in the United States. And it was true. I mean, we had this tailwind and China's had a hurricane behind it, you know, in recent decades.

Absolutely.

Yeah, at their back. And they've found a way of life that is dramatically different than existed for the billion. There was a billion then, maybe a billion two or three, whatever it is now. And they have changed. a country really of size that's, I don't think there's ever been anything like it. We've done it too, but it took somewhat longer. I mean, it was more stretched out. It was a remarkable period, but, you know, when you go to, I first went there in 1995, and then they regarded it as a miracle, and then I went back ten years later, and it was a whole different country beyond that.
Buffett, thanks so much for joining us.  i'm andy serwer.  you've been watching Influencers.  we'll see you next time.

Investing is not that, it's really not complicated. I mean, the basic framework for it is simple. Now, then you have to work at it some to find the best pockets of undervaluation maybe or something. But you didn't have to have a high IQ. You didn't have to have lots of investment smarts to buy junk bonds in 2002 or even to do some of the stuff that was available when LTCM got in trouble. You really just had to have sort of the courage of your convictions. You had to have the willingness to do something when everybody else was petrified. And but that was true in 1974 when, you know, we were buying stocks at very, very, very low multiples of earnings. It wasn't that anybody didn't didn't know that they were cheap. They were just paralyzed for one reason or another.

And and, you know, that The lesson of following logic rather than emotion is something that's obvious, and some people have great trouble with it, and others have less trouble. Charlie, can you? get many more help from them. Well, I think this is different. When we were young, we had way less   than you people have now. There weren't very many smart people in the investment management field. There really weren't. And And you should have seen the people who were in the bank trust departments. I mean, so now we've got armies of brilliant young people and all these private partnerships and all these proprietary desks and all the big investment banks.

And we've got a vast amount of talent in the investment management business. And there's a lot of competition. There was suddenly a crisis now. There would be 500 firms that would be studying it intensely, each having capital that they could commit on a hair trigger. In our day, we would frequently be all alone. But in 2002— We'd be the only buyer. But in 2002, Charlie, there were tons of people that had investment experience and high IQs and lots of money. was around, wasn't any question about money. It's just they were terrified of that particular arena. Well, when you have a huge convulsion, which is like a big fire in this auditorium right now, you know, you get a lot of weird behavior. And if you... And if you can Particularly at the head table.

And if you can be wise when everybody else is going crazy, sure, there will still be opportunities. But that may give you a long, dull stretches if that's your strategy. Three years ago three years ago, you could find a number of securities in Korea population, 50 million, advanced society. strong balance sheets, strong industry positions at three or so times earnings. Now, but that took a convulsion to create that a big convulsion. Yeah, but the convulsion happened three or four years earlier, five years earlier. And plenty of smart people in Korea and the investment business, plenty of smart people here. scouring. The information was all available. You can go to the Internet and get information about Korean companies that's just as good as you get up from the SEC. And there they were, dozens of companies at very, very, very cheap prices.

Now, where are all these smart people with all this money? It did happen, but if I asked you to name 20 more like it, you would have great difficulty. I'm gonna name them. Number eight.

Well, it's somewhat interesting that we formed the first partnership 50 years ago, two days ago, Thursday, May 4th, 1956, which was 105,000. That's my sister clapping. She was in the partnership. Charlie and I were starting all over again, and we were in this. Charlie would say we shouldn't be doing this, but... If we were to succumb to Satan and engage in the same kind of activity, we would, I think, be doing something very similarly. If we were investing in securities, we would look around the world, and we would look at a Korea, and Charlie says you can't find 20 of them, but you don't have to find 20 of them. You only have to find one, really.

You do not have to have tons of good ideas in this business. You just have... a good idea that's worth a ton occasionally. And in securities, we would be doing the same thing, which would probably mean smaller stocks. It would mean smaller stocks because we would find things that could have an impact on a small portfolio that will have no impact on a portfolio the size of Berkshire. If we were trying to buy businesses, we'd have a tough time. We would have no reputation, so people would not be coming to us We'd be too small a player if you're talking about a million dollars. So we would not have much success, I don't think, with small amounts buying businesses. Charlie started out, you know, in real estate development because it took very, very little capital. And you could magnify brainpower and energy Or I should say brain power and energy could magnify small amounts of capital in a huge way that was not true in securities.

You know, my natural inclination was to look at securities and just kind of do it one foot in front of the other over time. But the basic principles wouldn't be different. You know, I think if I'd been running a partnership a couple of years ago with a small amount of money, I think I'd have probably been 100 percent in Korea. And, you know, I would be looking around for something that was very mispriced and that I understood. And every now and then that's going to happen. Charlie? Well, I agree with that. The concept that you're likely to find just one thing where it'll make 20 per annum and you just sit back for the next 40 years is That tends to be dreamland.

And in the real world, you have to find something that you can understand that's the best you have available. And once you've found the best thing, then you measure everything against that because it's your opportunity cost. That's the way small sums of money should be invested. And the trick, of course, is getting enough expertise that your opportunity cost, meaning your default option, which is still pretty good, is very high. So the game hasn't changed at all in terms of its basic arithmetic. That's why modern portfolio theory is so asinine. It really is, folks. Yeah. When Warren said he would have been all in one country...

That's pretty close to close to right. He wouldn't have quite done that when he had the partnership, but he would have been way more concentrated than is conventional if you listen to modern portfolio theory. Most people aren't going to find thousands of things that are equally good. They're going to find a few things where one or two of them are way better than anything else they know. And the right way to think about investing is to act thinking about your best opportunity cost. Number nine. It's in the freshman course in economics. Everywhere in the basic textbook, it just hasn't made its way into modern portfolio theory. We don't get asked to do book reviews.

Thank you. This is which book? Jeremy Spiegel.

It's had no effect on us.  charlie? Is that the fellow who is very optimistic about common stock investment over long periods of time? University of pennsylvania.  yeah.  yeah.  well, i think he's demented. Well, he's a very nice guy, Charlie. Well, he may well be a very nice guy, but he's comparing apples against elephants and trying to make accurate projections. Number 10.

Yeah, well, Ben Graham said long ago that you're neither right nor wrong because people agree with you or disagree with you. In other words, being—being contrarian has no special virtue over being a trend follower or a You're right because your facts and reasoning are right. So all you do is you try to make sure that the facts you have are correct. And that's usually pretty easy to do in this country. I mean, the information is available on all kinds of things. Internet makes it even easier. And then once you have the facts, you've got to think through what they mean. And you don't take a public opinion survey. You don't pay attention to things that are unimportant. I mean, what you're looking for is something things that are important and knowable. If something's important but unknowable, forget it. I mean, it may be important in order to know whether somebody's going to drop a nuclear weapon tomorrow, but It's unknowable. It may be all kinds of things.

And there are all kinds of things that are knowable but are unimportant. In focusing on business and investment decisions, you try to think you narrow it down to the things that are knowable and important, and then you decide whether you have information of sufficient value that you know, compared to price and all that that will cause you to act. What others are doing Means nothing it's nice and all that that will cause you to act what others are doing Means nothing it's what Graham writes in chapter 8 of the intelligent investor that the market is there to serve you and not to instruct you That's of enormous importance when people talk about momentum and stocks or or charting or any kind of things like that They're saying that the market is instructing you the market doesn't instruct us The market is there to serve us. If it does something silly, we get a chance to do something. Because it's doing something silly, we do it. But it doesn't tell us anything. It just tells us prices.

And if the price is out of line where the facts and reasoning lead you, then action is called for. And if it doesn't, you forget it and you know, go play bridge that day and the next day see whether there's something new. And the nice thing about it is there always is something new. I mentioned the LTCM crisis. You know, we on Sunday, people that had portfolios that were in trouble. Now, I will tell you that you can make a lot of money on Sunday. You may not get a chance very often, but any calls you get on Sunday, you're probably going to make money on. Things are really screwed up if you're getting calls on Sunday. And all you have to do is make sure that you're the callee and not the caller on Sunday. But if you get those calls, you're going to call on a Sunday and somebody says that the off-the-run is trading 30 basis points away from the on-the-run.

All you have to do is decide how you handle that particular piece of information, whether it's correct in the first place, but how you handle that piece of information. Whether you can play out your hand, you never get in a position, obviously, where the other fellow can call your tune. You have to be able to play out your hand under all circumstances. But if you can play out your hand, and you've got the right facts, and you reason by yourself, and you let the market serve you and not instruct you, you can't miss. Charlie? Well, I would say some of you probably can miss. I would say Charlie can't miss, I'll put it that way. He'll agree with that. Do you have anything further to add on this one? Okay. At least I've got him off that previous subject. Number 11. It really doesn't make any difference.

I mean, we don't pay any attention to what people say about Coca-Cola stock or Gillette stock or any of those things. I mean, on any given day, two million shares of Coca-Cola may trade. That's a lot of people selling, a lot of people buying. If you talk to one person, you'd hear one thing and talk to another. You really should not make decisions and securities based on what other people think. If you're doing that... You should think about doing something else because a public opinion poll will not get you rich in Wall Street. So you really want to stick with businesses that you feel you can somehow evaluate yourself. I don't think, I mean, Charlie and I, we don't read anything about what business is going, the economy is going to do, or the market is going to do, or what anybody, anytime I see some article that says, you know, these analysts say this or that about some business, it just, it doesn't mean anything. anything to us.

You cannot get rich with a weather vane. And I would say this, in terms of the predictions, and I know the spirit in which you asked the question, but there's just, there's a market out there all the time, and people love to hear predictions. I mean, if I said I was going to offer a bunch of predictions today, I mean, we would have a million people here. I mean, they're dying to have predictions. And speeches at Rotary clubs or trade associations or whatever, they just plain love it. And that's what a whole industry is built upon, you know, the people coming out of Washington that talk about political predictions. I don't read those in the paper at all because it's just—it's space fillers, basically. You've mentioned edgar cayce, ben graham knew Edgar Cayce pretty well.  but I just have never seen any utility to any of that at all.  there will be some huge surprises in the world.

there's no question about that but I don't I don't think that betting on any specific one is a very smart policy in fact our we usually bet against them in terms of super catastrophes we know there will be a 7.0 or greater quake in California in the next 50 years we don't know where it'll be or when it'll be or anything like that we're willing to pay out a lot of money if it happens tomorrow and because people do worry about catastrophe and in this case it's perfectly proper with with with insured values but it it just isn't any way in in our view to get through economic life charlie all of these economists with 160 iqs that spend their life studying it can you name me one super wealthy economist that's ever made money out of securities you know i may just go down the list no no kane's kane's actually in his early years, tried to make money in stocks by predicting what business would do.

And he gave it up. And then he went over to a Graham-type approach.

I mean, it's very interesting to read his history on this, because he thought he could, by looking at various economic variables, pick what he called the credit cycle and make a lot of money and and he what broke a couple times and doing it had to borrow from people and then he settled on buying good businesses cheap that he understood and concentrating his investments and he did very well it's an interesting history but if you if you look at the whole history of them you know they don't make a lot of money buying and selling stocks but people who buy and sell stocks listen to them which is i have a little trouble with that you know i i'm not i've not earned any uh any uh stars for my past economic predictions and the good thing about my economic predictions if I even do make them is that I pay no attention to them myself so I Really and the way we pick our investments is we just don't get into the macro factors I can't recall a time when Charlie and I have looked at a business either buying it in its entirety or buying pieces of it through the stock market I just macro to the the conclusions or just never enter into the discussion.

I mean, I'll pick up the phone we've had these two in recent months and I'll tell Charlie about it. And we talk about a few things, but we don't talk about anything remotely macro. And that's really the way it'll stay. I've seen a lot of bank mergers recently and one of the things they do because they want to cut the costs and justify a merger which they're dying to do. I mean, that's the reason they they so they cut costs they wouldn't have cut if they if they weren't dying to do the merger in the first place and get bigger but that Frequently, I know one in particular that I'm thinking of it, you know, they'll cut out the economics department, you know I always wonder why the hell they had it in the first place, you know, because what what what do they do? You know, I mean So the guy comes in and says, I think GDP will be 4.6 this year instead of 4.3. So what? You know, I mean, you're still trying to make every good loan you can make, and you're still trying to take in deposits as she could be trying to cut costs wherever you can.

It's got nothing to do with running the business, but, you know, it's fashionable. And every bank had its economist and economics department, and when a big client would come in, they'd take them to lunch. It just, it always has struck me as, it's just a lot of nonsense. You know, so if we ever get an economics department at Berkshire, sell the stock short. There was one other item in here, I believe, which I think achieved a little added relevance in the last year. I said, we therefore need someone genetically programmed to recognize and avoid serious risks, and then I put in italics, including those never before experienced. And then I said, certain perils that lurk in investment strategies cannot be spotted by one of the models, by use of the models commonly employed today by financial institutions. Well, I think that proved to be somewhat accurate.

prophetic of what happened last year. All of these places had models. I mean, the major banks, the major investment banks, and they would meet weekly at a risk committee, probably, and go over their models, and all of the statistics would be printed in nice columns and everything, and they didn't have the faintest idea what risks they were involved. You really need, in the investment world, someone very solid, someone you trust, someone reasonable analytical skills, but you also need someone that actually can contemplate problems that haven't popped up yet, but which are starting to become possibilities in terms of new financial instruments or new behaviors in markets and that sort of thing. And that's a rare quality.

I mean, that inability to envision something that doesn't show up in your past model you know, can be fatal. And Charlie and I spend a lot of time thinking about things that could hit us out of the blue that other people include in their thinking and we may miss some opportunities because of that but we feel it's essential when managing other people's money or for that matter managing our own money so I would say that that you might go back and read the 2006 annual report again but those are the criteria we're looking for and we have identified as being met by the four people we're thinking about Charlie Yeah, you can see how risk-averse Berkshire is.

In the first place, we try and behave in a way so that no rational person is going to worry about our credit. And after we've done that and done it for many years, we also behave in a way that we And after we've done that and done it for many years, we also behave in a way that if the world suddenly didn't like our credit, we wouldn't even notice it for months. liquidity and are so unlikely to be unable to be pressured by anybody. That double layering of protection against risk is like breathing around Berkshire. It's just part of the culture. And the alternative culture is just the opposite.

You call a man the chief risk officer, but often he is functioning as a guy that makes you feel good while you do dumb things. So he's like the Delphic Oracle that convinced the Persian king to attack somebody or other. I mean, he's just a dumb soothsayer. And how can a guy be dumb when he's got a PhD and he can do all this advanced math? Easy. But you can. All you've got to do is crave system and computation so much that you torture reality into fitting some mathematical model, which really doesn't match, particularly under extreme conditions. And then because of this work that you're putting into everything and these computations about daily trading risk and so forth, you feel confident that you've clobbered the risk, but you haven't.

You've just clobbered up your own head. Yeah, we really want to run Berkshire. I'll even applaud that one. We really want to run Berkshire so that if the world isn't working tomorrow the way it's working today, and it's working in a way nobody expected, that we don't have a problem. We do not want to be dependent on anybody or anything else. And yet we want to keep doing things. So We've found a way to we think we've found a way to do that. It may give up some of them. Well, it obviously gives up earning higher returns 99 percent of the time, and maybe 99.9 percent of the time. Obviously, we could have run Berkshire with more leverage over the years than we have, but we wouldn't have slept as well, and we wouldn't feel comfortable.

We have a of people in this room that have almost all their net worth in berkshire including me and we wouldn't feel comfortable uh running a business that way why do it i mean it doesn't it just doesn't make any sense to us to to be exposed to ruin and disgrace and embarrassment and for something that's not that meaningful. If we can earn a decent return on capital, you know, what's an extra percentage point? It just isn't that important. So we will always try to behave in a way that, A, is not dependent on anybody else evaluating the risk, except for us. It cannot be farmed out. And you've seen what happened to some institutions where the management thought they were farming it out. And You know, if that means a reasonable return instead of a slightly unreasonable return, we just accept it. Number two.

Yeah, we can act. Our immediate decision is whether we can figure what's being offered out to us or not. I mean, there's a go/no-go signal, and Charlie and I are often thought to be rude when we think we're just being polite and not wasting the other person's time. So as they start mid-sentence in their first conversation with us, we just say, Forget it. And Charlie's pretty good at that, and I'm picking it up. It's we know very, very, very early in the conversation whether somebody's talking about something there's any chance is actionable by us. And we don't worry about the ones we miss. We want to make sure that we don't waste any time thinking about things that when we get all through thinking about them, we're not going to know enough to make the decision on. So we just rule those out. And that rules a lot of things out.

Then if it gets through a couple of these filters and makes it into an area where it says, this is something that we know enough about to make a decision on. We're ready to move right then. So we make decisions. We can make a decision in five minutes very easily. I mean, it just is not that complicated. Now, we know about a number of businesses and industries, and there's a lot of businesses and industries we don't know anything about. We know about a lot of things about certain kinds of bonds, and we know some. There's a variety of things we know about, and it's nice if we can expand that universe of knowledge. But the most important thing is that anything that gets through is in an area of knowledge. And the truth is, if we can't make a decision in five minutes, we can't make it in five months. We're not going to learn enough in the following five months to make up for the fact that we went in deficient in the first place. So it's just not a problem around Berkshire.

If we get a call and somebody says either they've got a business for sale or that's what we're going to get on the calls or if I'm reading a paper or a magazine or an annual report or a 10k and I look at a price and there's a significant differential between price and value we move right then and Charlie and I don't need to talk to each other about it I mean we both think the same way and we have generally similar spheres of knowledge Charlie it's The answer to your question is we can make a lot of decisions about a lot of things very fast and very easily. And we're unusual in that respect. And the reason we're able to do that is there's such an enormous other lot of things that we won't allow ourselves to think about at all. It's just that simple.

I mean, I have a little phrase when people make pitches to me, and about halfway through the first sentence, I say, we don't do startups. They don't exist. Well, if you blot out startups, there's a whole layer of complexity that goes out of your life. And we've got other little blotter-out systems. And using those, we finally find out that what remains is still a pretty large territory that we can handle. Think that's fair or wrong? Yeah. And there are an awful lot of giveaways that people, in the first sentence or two, throw out that, you know, we just know we aren't you know, it isn't going to work. We waste very I would say we waste a lot of time, but we waste it on things we want to waste our time on. And we're very selective about that, and then we're good at it. We waste a lot of time. But we're not going to waste it on things we don't want to waste it on. Number three.

It's just the way it is. It's as though God made the world so that only people fluent in math could understand it. I think you can handle ordinary human activity pretty well, but if you want to understand, say, science, you can't do it without math. That's just the way it is. And in business, if you're innumerate, you're going to be a klutz. Keep talking, I'm chewing. We'll go back. Go ahead. The good thing about business is you don't have to know any high math. It may be a disadvantage to know high math, though. Yes, I think it is, because you look for opportunities to use this marvelous, complicated tool, and by and large, that doesn't work nearly as well as just using the simple math.

When my mother sang me songs about compound interest, there really wasn't any need to go further than that. Let's go back to number one.

Well, the mistakes we made and we made them, some of them big time are of two kinds. One is when we didn't invest at all in something that we understood that was cheap. Maybe because we weren't even working hard enough at looking at the whole list, or because for one reason or another we just didn't take action. And the second was starting in on something that could have been a very large investment and not maximizing it.

Charlie is a huge believer in the idea that you don't sit around sucking your thumb when you can when something comes along that should be done that you you pour into it and and that's generally what we've tried to do but but uh there have been times and it's usually happened when i've started buying something at x and it went up to x plus an eighth or some intolerable amount like that and i i quit or waited for it to come back And we've missed, in some cases, billions of dollars of profit because of the fact that I'd gotten anchored, in effect, to some initial price when I could have paid more subsequently, and it really was inconsequential.  do you have anything worse to confess than walmart? no, walmart, i cost us about... It's up to $10 billion now. I cost us about $10 billion.

I set out to buy 100 million shares of Walmart pre-split at about $23 billion. And Charlie said it didn't sound like the worst idea I ever came up with, which is, from him, I mean, just godly praise. And... And then, you know, we bought a little, and then it moved up a little bit. And I thought, well, you know, maybe it'll come back or what. Who knows what I thought? I mean, you know, only my psychiatrist could tell me. And that thumb-sucking, reluctance to pay a little more, the current cost is in the area of $10 billion. And there have been other examples, too. And there will probably be more examples in the future, unfortunately. But that is on the other hand, it doesn't bother us.

I mean, you know, it's maybe instructional to talk about it just a little, and I'm glad to respond to the question. But in the end, we're going to make a lot of mistakes at Berkshire. And we've made them in the past. We'll make them in the future. You know, if every shot you hit in golf was a hole-in-one, it wouldn't be you know, the game would soon lose interest, unfortunately. uh so you have to hit a few in the woods occasionally just to make it make it a little more interesting we'll try not to do that too often but those will be the kind of mistakes we make we probably won't make the kind of mistakes although we have we made one with dexter shoe but we we probably won't make the kind that where they cost us a ton of money uh that uh There'll be much more of omission than commission, I think you'll find in the future. Charlie, you want to add any more?

Yeah, at least we are constantly thinking about the past occasions when we blew off opportunities, since those don't hit financial reports, the opportunities you had but didn't accept, most people don't bother thinking about them very much. And at least that is a mistake we don't make. We rub our own noses in our mistakes in blowing opportunities, as we just did. Okay, number two.

Well, when we were younger, we spent probably Charlie compared to now spent a lot more time I spent a fair amount more time looking at companies. But we would if we were doing it over again, we would do it over again pretty much the same way. We would look at everything in sight that we thought we could understand and The world hasn't changed in that respect. There may be some more people doing it, but there are a lot more companies to look at now. And we would read everything in sight about the businesses and the industries we thought we could understand. We would look for things that jumped out at us as being very cheap in relation to value. And we would have one enormous advantage because we would be working with far less capital, which means the universe of potential ideas would be would be far greater.

But there's no there's nothing different, in my view, about analyzing securities now than there was 50 years ago. Charlie? Yeah, we read a lot and we thought a lot. I don't know anybody who is wise who doesn't read a lot. And on the other hand, that alone won't do it. You have to have a temperament, really, which... grabs the correct ideas and does something with those ideas. And I think most people who read a lot don't have the necessary temperament, and they grab the ideas or they're simply confused by the mass of material. And of course, that won't work.

There's probably something Phil Cray used to talk about having a money mind and I would call it a business mind and you know, there are people that Are better with you know identical IQs that are that are better adapted for one than the other and and the temperament is all important, I mean if you can't control yourself and No matter what the intellect you bring to the process, you're going to have disasters, and Charlie and I have seen one after another of that. It's not a business that requires extraordinary intellect. It does require extraordinary discipline. And that shouldn't be so difficult, but as I look around the world sometimes, it apparently is quite difficult. I mean, the whole world went a little mad a few years back in terms of investments.

And you say to yourself, how could that happen? Don't they learn anything from the earlier ones? But, you know, what we learn from history is that people don't learn from history. And you certainly see that in financial markets all the time. Incidentally, you mentioned books. Charlie, you didn't recommend any books this year? CHARLIE MUNGER Well, one book I really like I couldn't buy because it's published only in England, but it'll get here in due course. And that's called Deep Simplicity by John Gribben. It's a perfectly marvelous book. And of course, that's a great title, Deep Simplicity. That's what we're all looking for. I've been reading a short history of nearly everything, and it's very impressive to read about people pondering how to figure out the weight of the earth or something in the 18th century.

And you would think minds that could do that would do very well in financial matters, but if you remember, Isaac Newton spent a significant part of his life trying to turn lead into gold. He might have made a good stockbroker, but it didn't do much for him financially. Charlie knows more about Isaac than I do. And he lost an enormous chunk of his net worth in the South Sea bubble, so he invested in an absolute crooked mania. And here was the smartest man in the world. So just IQ points alone won't do it. Microphone 11, please.

Yeah, we think the best way to minimize risk is to think. And the idea that you have, you know, you'll say I've got 60 percent in stocks and 40 percent in bonds and then have a big announcement. Now we're moving it to 65-35 as some strategists or whatever they call them in Wall Street do. I mean, that has to be pure nonsense. I mean, 60-40 or 65-30, it just doesn't make any sense. What you ought to do is have your default position as always short-term instruments, and whenever you see anything intelligent to do, you should do it, and you shouldn't be trying to match up with some some goal like that. I found it entertaining. I was just reading yesterday an article, I think it was, about the two fellows at Google and all of the problems they're going to have because they're each going to get a few billion dollars. And I mean, it was, I mean, I wanted to send a sympathy card.

I almost went down a Hallmark store because this article went on, they've got this this terrible problem and that terrible problem, and they're going to need lawyers and they're going to need financial aid. They don't need anybody. Those guys are smarter than the people that are coming to them, and they do not have a big problem. And they're very capable of thinking it through themselves. The people that have the problem are the people who want to sell their services to them and are going to have to convince them that they have a problem. But so much of what you see when you talk about asset allocation or something like that, it's just merchandising. It's a way to make you think that if you don't know how to determine whether it should be 60/40 or 65/35, that you need these people. And you don't need them at all in investing.

I mean, most of the professionals that tell you that you're going to get in great trouble unless you listen to them and adopt and sign up for their services, you know, they're good at selling, but It's what my brother-in-law, former brother-in-law that worked at the stockyards used to say was that people would bring in cattle or something. And I'd say to him, you know, how do you get the farmer to employ you to sell the swift or armor or cut of hay instead of the guy right next to you? I mean, you know, it's a cow is a cow, and armor is going to buy it the same way. And he gave me this disgusted look, and he said, Warren, it's not how you sell them, it's how you tell them. Well, there's a lot of that in Wall Street. Charlie? People have always had this craving to know the future.

You know, the king used to hire the magician or the forecaster, and he'd look in sheep guts or something for an answer as to how to handle the next war. And so there's always been a market for people who reported to know the future based on their expertise. And there's a lot of that still going on. It's just as crazy as when the king was hiring the forecaster. the forecaster who looked at the sheep guts and And people have an economic incentive to sell some Nostrum it can be sold over and over and over again. The really interesting figures are when you combine the Underperformance of the market say by the mutual fund industry, which is probably a couple of points per annum That understates it.

Now if you take all of the investors in the mutual funds who are constantly whip-sawing from one fund to another by a bunch of brokers who want commissions, now you take a subnormal performance and it goes down another three or four percentage points due to the shuffling of the mutual fund investments. So the poor guy in the general public is getting a terrible result from contacting the experts, and these guys are hitting the scout troop and the community chest drive and are locally reputable people. I think it's disgusting. It's much better to make a living by being part of a system that delivers value to the people who are buying the product. But nobody... Nobody refrains from creating gambling casinos or something on my theory.

If it'll work to make money, why we tend to do it in this country. Microphone four.

Well, it isn't the magic number, and there is no magic number. I would get very worried about somebody that walked in every morning and told us precisely how many dollars of cash we needed to be, you know, secure to free Sigma or something like that. Charlie and I have had a lot of we saw a lot of problems develop in an organization that expressed their risks in Sigma. And we even argued sometimes with the appropriateness of how they calculated their risk. It was truly horrible. And they were a lot smarter than we were. That's what it is. It's depressing. But...

We both have the same bent of mind whereby we think about worst cases all the time and then we add on a big margin of safety and We don't want to go back to go. I mean, I enjoy tossing those papers in the other room, but I don't want to do it for a living again. So we undoubtedly build in layers of safety that others might regard as foolish. But we've got 600,000 shareholders and we've got members of my family that have 80 or 90 of their net worth in the company. And I'm just not interested in explaining to them We went broke because there was a 100 to 1 chance that we would go broke and there was a remaining probability was filled by the chance of doubling our money.

And I decided that that was just a good gamble to take. We're not going to do that. It doesn't mean that much. We are never going to risk what we have and need for what we don't have and don't need. We'll still find things to do where we can make money, but we don't have to stretch to do it. It's my job, and Charlie thinks the same way, I mean, we don't have to talk about it much, but it's our job to figure out what can really go wrong with this place. And, you know, we've seen September 11th, and we've seen September of 2008, and we'll see other things of a different nature, but similar impact in the future. And we not only want to sleep all of those nights, we want to be thinking about things to do with some excess money we might have around.

So it is If you're calibrating it in some mathematical way, I would say it's really dangerous. I could give you a couple of examples on that, but unfortunately, I've learned about them on a confidential basis. But some really great organizations have had dozens of people with advanced mathematical training And thinking about it daily, making computations, and they don't really get at the problem. So it's at the top of the mind always around virtualization. and your returns in 99 years out of 100 will probably be penalized by us being excessively conservative and one year out of 100 will survive when some other people won't. Charlie?

Yeah, but how do these super smart people with all these degrees and higher mathematics end up doing these dumb things? I think it's explainable by the old proverb that to a man with a hammer, every problem looks pretty much like a nail. They've learned these techniques and they just twist the problem so they fit the solution, which is not the way to do it. And they have a lack of understanding of history, I would say. One of the things, in 1962, when I set up our office at Keywood Plaza, where we still are, it's a different floor, I put seven items on the wall. Our art budget was $7. And I went down to the library, and for a dollar each, I made photocopies of the pages from financial history. And one of those cases...

for example, was in May of 1901 when the Northern Pacific Corner occurred and It's kind of interesting in terms of being in Omaha because Harriman was trying to get control of the Northern Pacific and James J. Hill was trying to control the Northern Pacific. And unbeknownst to each other, they both bought more than 50 of the stock. Now, when two people buy more than 50 of the stock each and they both really want it, they're not just going to resell it. You know, interesting things happen. To the shorts. And in that paper of May 1901, the whole rest of the market was totally collapsing because Northern Pacific went from $170 a share to $1,000 a share in one day, trading for cash because the shorts needed it. And there was a little item at the top of that paper.

which we still have at the office, where a brewer in Troy, New York, committed suicide by diving into a vat of hot beer because he'd gotten a margin call. And to me, the lesson that that fellow probably understood sigmas and everything and knew how impossible it was that in one day a stock could go from 170 to a thousand and cause margin calls on everything else. And he ended up in the vat of hot beer and I've never wanted to end up in the vat of hot beer. So those seven days that I put up on the wall Life in financial markets has got no relation to sigmas. I mean, if everybody that operated in financial markets had never had any concept of standard errors and so on, they would be a lot better off. Don't you think so, Charlie? Well, sure. Here, have some fudge.

It's created a lot of false confidence. And now it has gone away. Again, as I said earlier, the business schools have improved. So has risk control on Wall Street. They now have taken the Gaussian curve and they just changed its shape. They threw it away. Well, they just made it a different shape than Gauss did. And it's a better curve now, even though it's less precise. They talk about fat tails, but they still don't know how fat to make them. They have no idea. Well, but they knew that they learned through painful experience. They weren't fat enough. Yeah, they learned the other was wrong. But they don't know what's right. But we always knew that there were fat tails. Warren and I, in the Solomon meetings, would look over at one another and roll our eyes when the risk control people were talking.

Well, financial companies are more difficult to analyze than many companies. I mean, it is more, if you take the insurance business, you know, the biggest single element that is very difficult. to evaluate, even if you own the company, is the loss and loss adjustment expense reserve, and that has a huge impact on reported earnings of any given period. And the shorter the period, the more the impact can be from just small changes in assumptions. You know, we carry, we'll say, $45 billion of loss reserves, but... If I had to bet my life on whether $45 billion turned out to be a little over, a little under, I mean, it'd be, I think, a long time. And you could just as easily have a figure of $45.5 billion or $44.5 billion.

And if you were concerned about reporting given earnings in a given period, that would be an easy game to play. In a bank, you know, it basically is whether the loans are any good. And I've been on the boards of banks, and that's, you know, I've gotten surprises. It's tough to tell. It's financial companies. If you're analyzing something like WD-40, you know, or See's Candy or our brick business, whatever. They may have good or bad prospects, but you're not likely to be fooling yourself much about what's going on currently. But with financial institutions, it's much tougher. Then you add throw-in derivatives on top of it, and it's No one probably knows perfectly what some of the, or even within a reasonable range, the exact condition of some of the biggest banks in the world.

But that brings you back to the due diligence question of the agencies. You had very high-grade, very smart, financially smart people on the boards of both Freddie and Fannie, and yet You know, one was $5 billion and one was apparently $9 billion. Those are big numbers. And I don't think those people were negligent. And it's just it's very, very tough to know precisely what's going on in a financial institution. Charlie and I were directors of Salomon. And Charlie was on the audit committee. And I forget the size of a few of those things that you found, but, you know, what wasn't found. And that doesn't mean the people below are crooks or anything like that. It just means that it's very tough with thousands and thousands and thousands of complicated transactions, sometimes involving the computations, involving multiple variables.

It can be very hard to figure out where things stand at any given moment. And, of course, when the numbers get huge on both sides and you get small changes in these huge numbers, they have this incredible effect on quarterly or yearly figures. because it all comes lumped in, those adjustments come lumped in a short period of time. So I just think you have to accept the fact that insurance, banking, finance companies, we've seen all kinds of finance companies, both frauds and just big mistakes over time, just one after another over the years.

It's just a more dangerous situation Field to analyze it doesn't mean you can't make money on it We've made a lot of money on it, but but it's it's difficult now obviously a Geico is where you're insuring pretty much the same thing, auto drivers, and you get your statistics are much more valid in something like that than they will be if you're taking something that like asbestos liability, you're subject to far greater errors in estimation. Doesn't mean that people aren't operating in good faith. But, you know, I would take just take the asbestos estimates of the 20 largest insurance companies. I will bet you they're way off, but I don't know in which direction. And that's that's sort of the nature of financial companies. I wouldn't fault the rating agencies in terms of not being able to to dig into the the.

financials and fine things that, you know, all of the companies that you've talked about have had big name auditors. And our auditors at Berkshire, how many hours did they spend last year? I don't know what it would be, probably 60,000, 70,000 hours. And I'm sure another, you know, if you take major banks, they're spending more than that. But, you know, can they be certain of the numbers? I doubt it. Charlie? Yeah. Warren is obviously correct that where you've got complexity, which by its very nature provides better opportunities to be mistaken and not have it come to notice or to be fraudulent and have it not be found out, you're going to get more fraud and mistakes than you are if you're selling a business. where you shovel sand out of the river and sell it by the truckload.

Just as a business that sells natural gas is going to have more explosions than a business that sells sand, a business like these major financial institutions, by its nature, is going to have way more problems. And that will always be true. And it's true when the financial institutions are owned by governments. In fact, some of the worst financial reporting in the world is done by governments. and government institutions like government banks in China, et cetera. So if you don't like the lack of perfect accounting and financial institutions, you're in the wrong world.

You're in the club.

That was a very, very good question. And in my own case, you know, I started out without doing anything about valuing companies. And then Graham taught me a way to value a certain type of company. that would prove successful, except the universe of those companies dried up. But nevertheless, it was almost a guarantee against failure, but it was not a guarantee that these things would continue to be available. Charlie taught me a lot about the value of a durable competitive advantage and a really first-class business. But Over time, I've learned more about various types of businesses, but you'd be amazed how many businesses I don't feel that I understand well.

The biggest thing is not how big your circle of competence is, but knowing where the perimeter is. If you You don't have to be an expert on 90 of the businesses or 80 or 70 or 50. But you do have to know something about the ones that you actually put your money into. And if that's a very small part of the universe, that still is not a killer. And I think if you think about what you would pay for a McDonald's stand, what you think you would pay for, you know, think about the businesses in your own hometown of Galatia. You know, which would you like to buy into? Which do you think you could understand their economics? Which do you think will be around 10 or 20 years from now? Which do you think it would be very tough to compete with? Just keep asking yourself questions about businesses. Talk about with other people about them. You will extend your knowledge over time. And always remember that, Mark. margin of safety.

And I think you basically have the right attitude because you do you recognize your limitations. And that's enormously important in this business. You will find things to do. Six or seven years ago, maybe not that long. Yeah, six or seven years ago when I was looking at Korean stocks, for example, I never had any idea that Korean stocks would be something that I would be buying. But I looked over there and I could see that there were a number of businesses that met the margin of safety test. And there I diversified because I didn't know that much about any specific one. But I knew that a package of 20 was going to work out very well, even if a crook might run one of them and a couple of might run into competition I didn't anticipate because they were so cheap. And that was sort of the old Graham approach. You will find opportunities from time to time. And the beauty of it is you don't have to find very many of them currently.

Well, obviously, if you want to get good at something which is competitive, you have to think about it a lot and learn a lot and practice doing it a lot. And the way the world is constructed in this field, you have to keep learning because the world keeps changing and your competitors keep learning. So... You just have to get up each morning and try and go to bed that night a little wiser than you were when you got up. And if you keep doing that for a long time and accumulate some experience, good and bad, as you try and master what you're trying to do, People who do that almost never fail utterly.

They may have a bad period when luck goes against them or something, but very few people have ever failed with that. If you have the right temperament, you may rise slowly, but you're sure to rise slowly. Charlie, did you take any business courses in school? None. I took accounting. And when did you start valuing businesses? In Hutchinson? How did you go about it? When I was a little boy. I can remember I would come down to the Omaha Club and there was an old gentleman who hit the Omaha Club about 1030 every morning. He obviously did almost no work and yet was quite prosperous. He became your ideal. Well, but he made me very curious as a little boy. I said to my father, How in the hell does he do that? And he said, Charlie, he's in a business where he enjoys practically no competition.

He gathers up and renders dead horses. Well, that was an example of avoiding competition by one stratagem. If you keep asking questions like that of reality, starting at a young age, you gradually learn. And, Warren, you were doing the same thing. Well, yeah, thankfully he extrapolated. He went beyond his original insight there. I noticed it's rather interesting. You take the rulers of the businesses when I was a little boy. awful lot of those business in Omaha. A lot of those businesses went broke, a lot of them sold out at modest prices under distress, and some of the people who rose, like Key Whip from small beginnings, nobody thought of as the great glories of that early time. And I think that's kind of the way life is.

It's hard to get anywhere near the top, and it's hard to hold any position once you've attained it. But I think you could predict that Kiewit was likely to win. They cared more about doing it right. They cared more about avoiding trouble. They put more discipline on themselves. Well, if you knew the individual well, you would have bet, right? What? If you knew the individual, Pete himself. I would not have bet on any of the people I knew who were already wealthy. But I would have bet on Pete Kiewit. His sister taught me math. And... No, half Dutch, half German. You know, this is a tough culture. You've just heard it, folks. Half Dutch, half German. Go out looking for them. Well, the man that's recommending this is named Munger.

Anyway, the... No, I don't think it's that. But if you're, I was just automatically doing that. What was working? What was failing? Why was it working? Why was it failing? If you have that temperament, you are gradually going to learn. And if you don't have that temperament, I can't help you. If you'd followed Pete Kiewit around for 10 years, you never would have seen him do anything dumb, right? Oh, yeah. So... It's avoiding the dumb thing. You really don't have to be brilliant, but you know, you have to avoid just sort of what almost seem the obvious mistakes. But I would say that you're on the right track back there in terms of having the basic fundamentals, knowing your limitations, but still seeking to learn more about various kinds of businesses.

Charlie, I think when he practiced law Any client that came in, Charlie was thinking about that business as if he owned the place. And he probably generally felt he knew more about the place than the guy that actually owned it, who was the client. But I remember talking to him, you know, 50 years ago, and he would start talking about Caterpillar dealerships in Bakersfield or something of the sort. He was incapable of looking at a business without thinking about the fundamental economics of it. Mm-hmm. How'd that guy do with the caterpillar? Well, he sold it for a perfectly ridiculous price to a dumb oil company. It wasn't worth half what he got for it. But they had a concept and a strategy. They had a concept and a strategy, and no doubt they had consultants.

Becky?

The there's two ways of looking at it. If you talk about the capital necessary to run the business as opposed to what we might have paid for the business I mean, if we buy a wonderful business, you could run the Coca-Cola company, assuming you had the bottling systems separate, you could run it with no capital. Now, If you buy it for $100 billion, I mean, you can look at that as your capital or you can look at the basic capital. When we look at what's a good business, we're defining it in terms of the capital actually needed in the business. Whether it's a good investment for us depends on how much we pay for that in the end. There are a number of businesses that operate on negative capital. Carol's with Fortune magazine. You know, any of the great magazines operate with negative capital. I mean, the subscribers pay in advance.

There are no fixed assets to speak of, and the receivables are not that much. The inventory is nothing. So a magazine business, my guess is that People Magazine operates or Sports Illustrated operate with negative capital and particularly People makes a lot of money. So there are certain businesses. Well, we had a company called Blue Chip Stamps that where we got the float ahead of time and operated with really substantial negative capital. But there are a lot of great businesses that need very, very little capital. Apple doesn't need that much capital. The best ones, of course, are the ones that get very large while needing no capital. See's is a wonderful business, needs very little capital.

But we can't get people eating 10 pounds of boxed chocolates every day. Except here. We want to. Generally, the great consumer businesses need relatively little capital. The businesses where people pay you in advance you know, magazines and Christians being a case, insurance being a case you know, you're using your customers' capital. We like those kind of businesses, but of course, so does the rest of the world, so they can become very competitive in buying them.  we have a business, for example, that's run wonderfully, like Kathy Barron-Tamra has called business wire.  business wire does not require a lot of capital.  it has receivables and everything, but it is a service-type business.

and many of the service-type businesses and consumer-type businesses require a little capital.  and when they get to be successful, You know, they can really be something. Charlie? I've got nothing to add, but at any rate, the formula never changes. If you could own one business in the world, what would it be, Charlie? I hope I already own them myself. You know, you and I got in trouble by addressing such a subject many decades ago. That's right. I don't think I'll come back to it. Okay. Number 13. If you name some business that has incredible pricing power, you're talking about a business that's a monopoly or a near-monopoly. Sure. And I don't think it's very smart for us to sit up here.

Naming is our most admired business is something that other people regard as a monopoly. Okay. We'll move right along.

That's right. Yeah. And her father's even lower expectations. Right, right.

I sent those books on to Charlie, so I'll let him answer. Actually, I tend to be a follower of Confucius. I think this room is full of Confucian values. If the first law of Confucianism is filial piety, particularly toward elderly males, you can see why I like that system.

Area 4.

Go ahead. Call it your capital. Cost of capital first. Obviously considerations of cost are important in business. And obviously opportunity costs, which is a doctrine of economics, really a doctrine of life'smanship, are also very important. And we've always had that kind of basic thinking. Of course capital isn't free, and of course you can figure cost of capital when you're borrowing money, or at least you can figure cost of loans. But the theorists had to develop some theory for what equity cost, and there they just went bonkers.

They said if you earned 100 on capital because you had some marvelous business, your cost of capital was 100%. And therefore, you shouldn't look at any opportunity that delivered a lousy 80%. That is the kind of thinking which came out of the capital assets pricing models and so forth that I've always considered inanity. What is Berkshire's cost of capital. We have this damn capital. It just keeps multiplying and multiplying. What does this cost? You have perfectly good old-fashioned doctrines like opportunity cost. At any given time when we consider an investment, we have to compare it to the best alternative investment we have at that time. We had perfectly good old-fashioned ideas that are very basic to use, but they weren't good enough for these modern theorists.

So they invented all this ridiculous mathematics which concluded that the companies that made the most money had the highest costs of capital. Well, all I can say is it's not for us. Now, the other half of that question I leave for Mr. Buffett. Yeah, what you find, of course, is that the cost of capital is about... a quarter percent below the return promised by any deal that the CEO wants to do. Very simple. You know, we have three questions on capital at this with capitals around, leaving aside whether we want to borrow money, which we generally don't want to do. And one is, does it make more sense to pay it out to the shareholders than to keep it within the company? The sub-question on that is, if we pay it out, is it better off to do it via repurchases or by a dividend?

The test for whether we pay it out in dividends is can we create more than a dollar of value within the company with that dollar than paying it out? And you never know the answer to that, but so far the answer is judged by results is yes, we can. And we think that prospectively we can, but that's a hope on our part, and it's justified to some extent by past history, but it's not a certainty. Once we've crossed that threshold, Then do we repurchase stock? Well, obviously, if you can buy your stock at a significant discount from conservatively calculated and intrinsic value and you can buy it in reasonable quantity, that's a use for capital. Beyond that, then the question becomes, if you have the capital, you think you can create more than a dollar, how do you create the most with the least risk? And that gets to business risk. It doesn't get to any calculation of the volatility.

I don't know the risk in seized candy as measured by its stock volatility because the stock hasn't been outstanding since 1972. Does that mean I can't determine how risky a business seize is because we don't have a daily quote on it? No, I can determine it by looking at the business and the competitive environment in which it operates and so on. So once we cross the threshold... of deciding that we can deploy capital so as to create more than a dollar of present value for every dollar retained, that is just a question of doing the most intelligent thing that you can find. And, you know, that is the cost of every deal we do is measured by the second best deal that's around at a given time, including mortgages. more of some of the things we're already in.

I have listened to cost of capital discussions at all kinds of corporate board meetings and everything else, and I've never found anything that made very much sense in it, except for the fact that it's what they learned in business school and it's what the consultants talked about, and most of the board members would nod their head without knowing what the hell was going on. And that's been my history with the cost of capital. Now, moving on to the big ideas, you know when you've got a big idea, and I can't tell you... you know, exactly what happens within your nervous system or brain at that time. But we've had relatively few big ideas, good ideas over the years. I don't know how many you think we've had in aggregate, probably in career, maybe 25 each. If you took the top 15 out of Berkshire Hathaway, most of you people wouldn't be here. So roughly one every two years. Yeah, one every year or two.

And sometimes there'll be a bunch of them, like in 1973 and 4. But the problem for us is that big now really means big. I mean, it has to be billions of dollars to move the needle very much at Berkshire. But I would say that when I would turn those pages 50 years ago in the Moody's manuals, I would know when I hit a big idea. I've got half a dozen of them that I keep the Xeroxes from those reports around from 50 years ago just because it was so obvious that they just, they were incredible. And that happens every now and then. When I met Rorimer Davidson, you know, in End of January 1951, and he spent four hours or five hours with me explaining GEICO. I knew it was a big idea.

Eight months later, probably ten months later, I wrote an article for the Commercial and Financial Chronicle on the security I like best. it was a big idea.  when I found western insurance securities, i knew it was a big idea.  i couldn't put millions of dollars into it, but I didn't have millions, so it didn't make any difference.  and we've seen things subsequently, and we'll see, you know, if we have a normal lifespan, we'll see a few more before we get done.  but I can't tell you that exactly how I can't tell you exactly what transpires in my mind that says, you know, flashes a neon sign up that says this is a big idea. What happens with you, Charlie? Actually, I have a real system. My idea of a truly big idea is one I get and I call Charlie and he only says no, rather than that's the worst idea I've ever heard of.

If he just says no, it's a hell of an idea. You know, the game in our kind of life is, is being able to recognize a good idea when you rarely get it, or when it rarely is presented to you. And I think that's something you have to prepare for over a long period. What is the old saying? That opportunity comes to the prepared mind. And I don't think you can teach people in two minutes how to have a prepared mind. But that's the game. Things we learned 40 years ago, though, will help and recognize the next big idea.

And on opportunity costs, going back to that, the current freshman economics text, which is sweeping the country, has right in practically the first page, and it says all intelligent people should think primarily in terms of opportunity cost. And that's obviously correct. But it's very hard to teach business based on opportunity cost. It's much easier to teach the capital assets pricing model, where you can just punch in numbers and outcome numbers. And therefore, people teach what is easy to teach instead of what is correct to teach. It reminds me of Einstein's famous saying, he says, everything should be made as simple as possible, but no more simple. Write that down.

You asked an interesting question about franchises, too, and mentioned Campbell's Soup and Kellogg. And I am no expert on that, but I would say that just based on... My general observation over the years is that the problems there came from two different things. I think that the problems with cereal, ready-to-eat cereal, were not so much changes in taste or consumption patterns, but I think they may have just pushed their pricing too far to the point that they lost market share without... getting in without having the molt that they thought they had as opposed to the General Mills cereals and the General Foods cereals and all of that sort of thing.

I mean if your pricing really gets out of whack and people regard Wheaties or Grape Mints in the same category as they regard Kellogg's Corn Flakes, you know, you're gonna lose share. And once you start losing share, share it, it's hard to get back. Problems with soup, I think, relate more to lifestyle. I think that it's become, it's a little less, it fits in a little less well with current lifestyles maybe than 40 years ago. Soft drinks, the consumption of soft drinks I don't have the figures here, but I would wager that in 110 years, the per capita soft drinks has gone up virtually every year throughout that history. I mean, it's now close to 30 of U.S.

consumption of liquids. So if the average American has about 64 ounces of liquids a day, you're talking about say 18 ounces of that being soft drinks and 43 of that 18 or almost 8 ounces a day being Coca-Cola products. In other words, one-eighth of all the liquid, man, woman, and child in the United States take in comes from Coca-Cola products, but that has gone up virtually, well, throughout the world, it's gone up on a per capita basis, you know, almost since soft drinks were discovered. People, I would say that that, that trend is almost impossible to reverse on a worldwide basis.

There's so much potential in countries where per capita consumption is like, well, I think it's maybe eight per capita, which is eight out servings, they talk, in terms of 64 ounces a year. So you have 1/50th of the consumption per capita on Coke products in some important countries that you have here. I just don't see it as being-- now, you can push pricing too far. I mean, there comes a point-- depends on the country in which you're doing it, and depends even on areas within the country in which you do it. But if you establish too wide a differential between Coke and a private label product, you will change consumption patterns somewhat. Not huge, but enough so that you don't want to do it. But I don't think you'll see... It's interesting. Coffee's gone down every year.

People talk about Starbucks and all that. But if you look at coffee consumption in this country, if you look at milk consumption in the country, per capita, it just goes down, down, down, down, year after year after year after year. I think it's pretty clear what people like to drink once they get used to it. And with the price... When I was born in 1930, a six and a half ounce Coke cost a nickel and you put a two cent deposit on the bottle, but forget about that, just take the nickel. Now you buy a 12 ounce can or a larger product and you're paying, as you buy it on the weekends at the supermarket specials, you're paying maybe a little more than twice the per ounce what you were paying in 1930, 70 years ago. And compare that to the price behavior of almost any product that you can find except raw commodities. But compare it to cars, housing, anything. And there's been very, very little price inflation in it.

And I think that's contributed, of course, to the growth in per capita's over time. Charlie, how about cereals and soup? Well, I think those are examples where the moats got less hostile for the competitors. Part of the trouble was the... The buying power got more concentrated and tougher. I mean, the big grocery chains now have a lot of clout. And then you add the Walmarts and the Costcos and the Sams. It's a different world faced by the Kelloggs than the one they had 30 or 40 years ago.

Yeah, there will be a battle always between brands and retailers because the retailer would like his name to be the brand and to the extent that people trust Costco or Walmart more than they or as much as they trust the brand then the value of having the brand moves over to the retailer from the product itself and that's gone on for a long long time. I you know the first I was Cases I know about in any real quantity were back with A&P in the 30s and A&P I believe, was the largest food retailer in this country, and they were also a big promoter of private labels. And Page, I think, was a big private label with them, for example.

And they felt they could convinced the consumer in the 30s that their brand meant more than having Del Monte on it or Campbell's or whatever it might be in the different categories. And people thought they were going to win that war for a while, but it And who knows? I mean, I don't know all the variables that went into the A&P's decline, but it was dramatic. I mean, it was one of, it was a great American success story for a while, and then it was a great American failure. Charlie? The muscle power of of the Sam's Clubs and the Costco's has gotten very extreme. A little earlier this morning when I was autographing books, a very good-looking woman came up to me and said she wanted to thank me. And I said, for what? And she said, you told me to buy this pantyhose I'm wearing from Costco.

And I'd evidently made some previous comment about how amazing it was that Costco could be at Hanes of all people to allow a co-branded pantyhose Haynes - Kirkland in the Costco stores That wouldn't have happened 20 years ago She must have been pretty desperate if she was consoling with you on where to buy pantyhose And we'll start just one second everybody got a chance to get to their seats Charlie has promised to stop tapping the Coke can during this session. I only did that when somebody else was talking. Number two? Okay.

I used to have a friend that was a stock salesman many years ago, and when you'd have lunch with him, he would just keep going like this. And finally, I would get to you and say, what's that? And he'd say, that's opportunity. He was pretty good. OK, Kelly tells me we should start with number two, zone two. So we're going to start with zone two.

If we could see in looking at any business what its future cash inflows or outflows from the business to the owners or from the owners would be over the next, we'll call it 100 years or until the business is extinct, and then could discount that back at the appropriate interest rate which I'll get to in a second that would give us a number for intrinsic value. In other words, it would be like looking at a bond that had a whole bunch of coupons on it that was due in 100 years. And if you could see what those coupons are, you can figure the value of that bond. compared to government bonds if you want to stick an appropriate risk rate in. Or you can compare one government bond with 5 percent coupons to another government bond with 7 percent coupons.

Each one of those bonds has a different value because they have different coupons printed on them. Businesses have coupons that are going to develop in the future, too. The only problem is they aren't printed on the instrument, and it's up to the investor to try to estimate what those coupons are going to be over time. As we have said in high-tech businesses or something like that, we don't have the faintest idea what the coupons are going to be. When we get into businesses where we think we can understand them reasonably well, we are trying to print the coupons out. We are trying to figure out what businesses are going to be worth in 10 or 20 years. When we bought See's Candy in 1972, we had to come to the judgment as to whether we could figure out the competitive forces that would operate the strengths and weaknesses of the company and how that would look over a 10 or 20 or 30 year period. And If you attempt to assess intrinsic value, it all relates to cash flows.

The only reason for putting cash into any kind of an investment now is because you expect to take cash out, not by selling it to somebody else, because that's just a game of who beats who, but by, in a sense, by what the asset itself produces. That's true if you're buying a farm. It's true if you're buying a business. And the filters you described, there are a number of filters which say to us, we don't know what that business is going to be worth in 10 or 20 years, and we can't even make an educated guess. Obviously, we don't think we know to three decimal places or two decimal places or anything like that precisely what's going to be produced. But we have a high degree of confidence that we're in the ballpark with certain kinds of businesses. The filters are designed to make sure we're in those kinds of businesses. We basically use long-term, risk-free that's government bond type interest rates to think back in terms of what we should discount at.

And, you know, that's what the game of investment is all about. Investment is putting out money to get more money back later on from the asset, and not by selling it to somebody else, but by what the asset itself will produce. If you're an investor, you're looking at what the asset you're looking at what the asset is going to do, in our case, businesses. If you're a speculator, you're primarily focusing on what the price of the object is going to do. independent of the business, and that's not our game. So we figure if we're right about the business, we're going to make a lot of money. And if we're wrong about the business, we don't have any hopes we don't expect to make money. And in looking at Berkshire, we try to tell you as much as possible as we can about our business, of the key factors. Those are the things that Charlie and I the things we put in our report about those businesses are the things that we look at ourselves.

So if Charlie had nothing to do with Berkshire, but he looked at our report, he would probably, in my view, he would come to pretty much the same idea of intrinsic value that he would come to from being around it, you know, for X number of years. Information should be there. We give you the information that if the positions were reversed, we would want to get from you. And in companies like Coca-Cola or Gillette or Disney or those kind of businesses, you will see the information in the reports. You have to have some understanding of what the doing, but you have that in your everyday activities, you'll get that kind of knowledge.  you won't get it in terms of some high-tech company, but you'll get it with those kind of companies.  and then you sit down and you try to print out the future.  charlie? charlie munger i would argue that one filter that's useful in investing is the simple idea of opportunity cost.

if you have one opportunity that you already have available in large quantity, and you like it better than 98 of the other things you see, well, you can just screen out the other 98%, because you already know something better. So the people who have a lot of opportunities tend to make better investments. People that don't have a lot of opportunities and people who have very good opportunities and using a concept of opportunity cost, they can make better decisions about what to buy. With this attitude, you get a concentrated portfolio, which we don't mind. That practice of ours, which is so simple, is not widely copied. I do not know why. Now, it's copied among the Berkshire shareholders. I mean, all you people have learned it.

But it's not the standard in investment management, even at great universities and other intellectual institutions. Very interesting question. If we're right, why are so many eminent places so wrong? There are several possible answers to that question. Yes. The attitude, though, I mean, if somebody shows us a business, the first thing that goes through our head is, would we rather... own this business and more Coca-Cola? Would we rather own it than more Gillette? It's crazy not to compare it to things that you're very certain of. There's very few businesses that we'll find that we're certain of the future about as companies such as that. And therefore, we will want companies where the certainty gets close to that.

And then we'll want to figure that we're better off than just buying more of those. If every management before they bought a business in some unrelated field that they might not have even heard of, you know, more than a short time before that's being promoted to them. But they said, is this better than buying in our own stock? You know, is this better than even buying, you know, buying Coca-Cola stock or something? There'd be a lot fewer deals done, but they tend not to measure against what we regard as close to perfection as we can get. Charlie, anyone? Well, I will say this, that the concept of intrinsic value used to be a lot easier because there were all kinds of stocks that were selling for 50 or less of the amount at which you could have easily liquidated the whole corporation if you owned the whole corporation.

Indeed, in the history of Berkshire Hathaway, we bought things at 20 of then liquidating value. And in the old days, the Ben Graham followers could run their Geiger counters over corporate America, and they could spill out a few things. And you could easily see, if you were at all familiar with the market prices of whole corporations, that you were buying at a huge discount. Well, no matter how bad the management, if you're buying at 50 of asset value or 30 or so on down, you have a lot going for you. And as the world has wised up and as stocks have behaved so well for people that stocks generally have gone to higher and higher prices that game gets much harder now to find something at a discount from intrinsic value Those simple systems ordinarily don't work.

You've got to get into Warren's kind of thinking, and that is a lot harder. I think you can predict the future in a few places best if you understand a few basic ideas that come from a good general education. And that's what I was talking about in that talk I gave at the USC Business School. In other words, Coca-Cola is a simple company if it's stripped down and analyzed in terms of some elemental forces. It's not hard to understand Costco either. There are certain fundamental models out there that do not take you don't have the kind of ability that quantum mechanics requires. You just have to know a few simple things and really know them. Charlie talks about liquid email. He's not talking about closing up the enterprise, but he's talking about what somebody else would pay for that stream of cash, too.

I mean, you could have looked at a collection of television stations owned by Cap Cities, for example, in the early, well, 1974, and it would have been worth, we'll say, four times what the company was selling for. Not because you'd close the stations, but just their stream of income was worth that to somebody else. It's just that the marketplace... was very depressed, although, like I say, on a negotiated basis, she would have gone and sold the properties for four times what the company selling point and you got wonderful management and i mean those things happen in markets they will happen again but part of part of investing in calculating intrinsic values is if you get the wrong answer when you get through in other words if it says don't buy you can't buy just because somebody else thinks it's going to go up or because your friends have made a lot of easy money lately or anything of the sort you just You have to be able to walk away from anything that doesn't work, and very few things work these days.

You also have to walk away from anything you don't understand, which in my case is a big handicap. But you would agree, wouldn't you, Warren, that it's much harder now? Yeah, but I would also agree that almost at any time over the last 40 years that we've been up on a podium, we would have said it was much harder in the past, too. But it is harder now. It's way harder. Part of it being harder now, too, is the amount of capital we run. I mean, if we were running $100,000, our prospects for returns would be and we really needed the money our prospects for return would be considerably better than they are running Berkshire. It's very simple. Our universe of possible ideas would expand by a huge factor. We are looking at things today that, by their nature, a lot of people are looking at. And there were times in the past when we were looking at things that very few people were looking at. But there were other times in the past when we were looking at things where the whole world was just looking at them kind of crazy.

And that's a decided help.

Well, I would use the approach that I think I'm using now of trying to search out businesses that were, I think, they're selling at the lowest price relative to the discounted cash they would produce in the future. But if I were working with a small amount of money, the universe would be huge compared to the universe of possible ideas I work with now. You mentioned that 50... '66 to '69 was the best period. Actually, my best period was before that. It was from right after I met Ben Graham in early 1951, but from the end of 1950 through the next 10 years actually returns averaged about 50 a year. And I think they were 37 points better than the Dow per year or something like that. But I was working with a tiny, tiny, tiny amount of money.

And so I would pour through volumes of businesses and I would find one or two that I could put $10,000 into or $15,000 into that were just ridiculous. They were ridiculously cheap. And obviously, as the money increased, the universe of possible ideas started shrinking dramatically. The times were also better for doing it in that time. But I think that I think if you're working with a small amount of money, with exactly the same background that Charlie and I have, and same ideas, same whatever ability we have, you know, I think you can make very significant sums. But as soon as you start getting the money up into the millions, many millions, the curve on expectable results falls off just dramatically. But that's the nature of it.

When you get up to things you can put millions of dollars into, you've got a lot of competition looking at that, and they're not looking as I did when I started. When I started, I went through the pages of the manuals, page by page.  i probably went through 20,000 pages in the moody's industrial transportation banks and Finance manuals.  and I did it twice.  and I actually looked at every business.  i didn't look very hard at some.  well, that's not a practical way to invest tens or hundreds of millions of dollars.  so I would say if you're working with a small sum of money, and you're really interested in the business and willing to do the work, you will find something. There's no question about it in my mind. You will find some things that promise very large returns compared to what we will be able to deliver with large sums of money. Charlie?

Well, yeah, I think that's right. A brilliant man who can't get any money from other people and is working with a very small sum probably should work in very obscure stocks, searching out unusual, mispriced opportunities. But, you know, you could... That's such a small world. It may be a way for one person to come up, but it's a long slog. Yeah, most smart people, unfortunately, in Wall Street, figure that they can make a lot more money a lot easier just by, one way or another, getting an override on other people's money or... delivering services in some way that people, and the monetization of hope and greed, you know, is a way to make a huge amount of money.

And right now it's very, just take hedge funds. I mean, I've had calls from a couple of friends in the last month that don't know anything about investing money. They've been unsuccessful and everything else. One of them called me the other day and said, well, I'm forming a small hedge fund. 125 million he was talking about. Like the thought that since there's only 125 million, maybe we ought to put in 10 million or something of the sort. I mean, if you looked at this fellow's Schedule D on his 1040 for the last 20 years, you know, you'd think he ought to be mowing lawns. But he may get his 125 million. I mean, you know, it's just astounding to me. how willing people are during a bull market just to toss money around because they think it's easy. And of course, that's what they felt about Interest Stocks a few years ago. They'll think about something else next year too.

But the biggest money made, you know, in Wall Street in recent years has not been made by great performance, but it's been made by great promotion, basically. Charlie, do you have anything? Well, I would state it even more strongly. I think the current scene is obscene. I think there's too much There's too much chasing after easy money. There's too much misleading sales material about investments. There's too much on the television emphasizing speculation in stocks.

Well, I remain very... And frankly, when you get the chance to talk to somebody like Lorimer Davidson, as I did when I was 20 years old, I probably learned more from Lorimer Davidson in those four or five hours than I learned in college with the exception of learning some accounting or one or two subjects like that. So you just want to soak it up. If you have those qualities you talked about, you'll see the areas as you go along. I mean, we have... Charlie and I probably, you know, we've made money in a lot of different ways, some of which we didn't anticipate, you know, when we were 30 or 40 years ago. But we did have the ability to recognize some. We didn't have the ability to recognize others. But we did know when we knew what we were doing and when we didn't. And we just kept looking. We had a curiosity about things.

You would know at a time like the long-term capital management crisis, for example, that there were going to be ways to make money. I mean, it just they were going to be out there, and all you had to do was just read and think eight or ten hours a day, and you were going to cover a lot of possibilities, probably a very high percentage of them good and some of them sensational. So you can't really lay it out ahead of time. You can't have a defined roadmap. But you can have a reservoir of thinking, looking at different kinds of businesses, looking at different kinds of securities, looking at markets in different places, and you will then spot a reasonable number of things that come along. You won't spot every one of them. We've missed all kinds of things. But the biggest thing, too, is to have something in the way you're programmed that so that you don't ever do anything where you can lose a lot.

I mean, our best ideas have not been better than other people's best ideas, but we've never had a lot of things that pulled us back.  so we never went two steps forward and one step back.  we probably went two steps forward and a fraction of a step back.  but avoiding the catastrophes is a very important thing, and it will be important in the future.  i mean, you will have your chance to participate in catastrophes.  charlie? charlie munger yeah, and of course, the place to look when you're young is in the inefficient markets. You shouldn't be trying to guess whether, you know, one drug company has a better drug pipeline than another. You want to go, when you're young, someplace that's very inefficient. And you shouldn't be trying to guess whether the stock market is going to go up or whether long-term bonds are going to change in yield. I mean, you don't have anything going in that kind of a game.

But you can have a lot going in games that very few people are playing and maybe where they even got their heads screwed on wrong in terms of how they're thinking about the subject. The RTC was a great example of a chance to make a lot of money. I mean, here was a seller of hundreds of billions of dollars worth of real estate where the people that were selling it had no economic interest in it, were eager to wind up the thing. You know, and they were selling at a terrible time when the people who had been venturesome in lending were no longer lending. The people who had been venturesome in the equity end of real estate had gotten cleaned out.

So you had a great background of environment, and then you had an imbalance of intensity in terms of analyzing situations between the seller, which was the government, with a bunch of people who had no economic interest in it and were probably eager to wind up the job, and buyers on the other side who were of the generally cautious type because the more venturesome type had taken themselves out of action. So and there were huge amounts of property. So you get these opportunities, and you'll get more. I mean, there won't be any scarcity of opportunities in your life, although there will be days when you feel that way.

Yes, hi mr.  buffett, mr.  munger, this is Whitney Tilson, a shareholder from New York.  for many years, both of you have been warning about the dangers of derivatives, at one point calling them financial weapons of mass destruction.  yet every year, tens of trillions of dollars of derivatives are bought and sold.  it just seems to be getting bigger and bigger and almost certainly improperly accounted for. And so I was wondering if you could comment specifically if you have any thoughts on how much longer this might go on. Do you see anything imminent that could derail this ever-inflating bubble? What might trigger it? And who should be doing what to try and mitigate this looming danger?

Well, we've tried to do a little to mitigate it ourselves by talking about it, but the you're right that and it isn't the derivative itself. I mean, there's nothing evil about a derivative instrument. As I mentioned, we have 60-some of them at Berkshire, and on Monday I will go over the directors with the directors, I'll go over all 60-some, and believe me, we'll make money out of those particular instruments. But The usage of them on an expanding basis, more and more imaginative ways of using them, introduces essentially more and more leverage into the system. And it's an invisible or largely invisible sort of leverage. Now, if you go back to the 1920s, After the crash, the United States government held hearings.

They decided that leverage, margin in those days as they call it, leverage contributed to perhaps the crash itself and certainly to the extent of the crash. And it was like pouring gasoline on a fire was when people's holdings got tripped. You know, when stocks went down 10 percent, people had to sell another 10 percent. More people had to sell and so on. Leverage was regarded as dangerous in the federal and the United States government empowered the Federal Reserve. to regulate margin requirements, regulate leverage. And that was taken very seriously. And for decades, it was a source of real attention. If you went to a bank and tried to borrow money on a stock, they made you sign certain papers as to that you weren't in violation of the margin requirements, and they policed it.

And it was taken quite seriously when the Fed increased or decreased margin requirements. It was a signal of how they felt about the level of speculation. Well, the introduction of derivatives and index future, all that sort of thing, has just totally made any regulation. of margin requirements a joke. They still exist. You know, it's an anachronism.

So I believe, I think Charlie probably agrees with me, that we may not know where exactly the danger begins and where and at what point it becomes a super danger and so on we certainly don't know what will end it precisely we don't know when it will end precisely but we probably at least I believe that it will go on and increase to the point where at some point There'll be some very unpleasant things happen in markets because of it. You saw one example of what can happen under forced sales. back in October 19, 1987, when you had so-called portfolio insurance. Well, now portfolio insurance and you ought to go back and read the literature for the couple years preceding that.

I mean, this was something that came out of academia, and it was regarded as a great advance in financial theories and everything. It was a joke. It was a bunch of stop-loss orders, which, you know, go back 150 years or something, except that they were done automatically and in large scale by institutions, and they were merchandised. People paid a lot of money to people to teach them how to put in a stop-loss order. And what happened, of course, was that If you have a whole series of stop-loss orders by very big institutions, you are pouring gasoline on fire. And when October 19th came along, you had a 22 percent shrink in the value of American business, caused essentially by a doomsday machine. A dead hand was selling as each level got hit. And three weeks earlier, people were proclaiming the beauty of this. Well, that is nothing new.

It was a formal arrangement to have this dynamic hedging or portfolio insurance sell things. But you have the same thing existing when you have fund operators operating with billions and billions in aggregate, trillions of dollars leveraged who will respond to the same stimulus. They have what we would call a crowded trade, but they don't know it. It's not a formal crowded trade. It's just that they're all ready to sell if a certain given signal or certain given activity occurs. And when you get that coupled with extreme leverage, which dribblers allow, you will someday get a very, very chaotic situation. I have no idea when. I have no idea what the exogenous factor. I didn't know that shooting some archduke, you know, would start World War I, and I have no idea what will cause this kind of a thing. But it'll happen.

Yeah, and of course the accounting being deficient enormously contributes to the risks. If you get paid enormous bonuses based on reporting profits that don't exist, you're going to keep doing whatever causes those phony profits to keep appearing on the books. And what makes that so difficult is that most of the accounting profession doesn't even recognize how stupidly it is behaving. And one of the people in charge of accounting standards said to me, well, this is better, this derivative accounting, because it's mark to market. And don't we want current information?

And I said, Yes, but if you mark to model and you create the models and your accountants trust your models and you can just report whatever profit you want as long as you keep expanding the positions bigger and bigger and bigger, the way human nature is, that will cause terrible results and terrible behavior. And this person said to me, Well, you just don't understand accounting. Yeah, four years ago or whenever it was when we started to liquidate Genry's portfolio, we had reserves set up for in the hundreds of millions and all sorts of things. And our auditor and I emphasize any other of the big four auditors absolutely would have attested to the fact that our stuff was mark-to-market. You know, I just wish I'd sold the portfolio to the auditors that day. I'd be 400 million better off. So, it's a real problem.

Now, there's one thing that's really quite interesting to me. You know, if I owe you on my dry cleaning bill or something $15 and they're auditing the dry cleaners, they check with me and they find out that I owe you $15 and it's all fine. If they're auditing me, they find out that I owe the dry cleaner $15. There are only four big auditing firms, you know, basically in this country. And I will and so in many cases, if they're auditing my side of the derivative transaction, you know, what I'm valuing it at. The same firm may often be valuing or attesting to the value of the mark by the person on the other side of the contract. I will guarantee you that if you add up the marks on both sides, they don't equate out to zero.

We have 60-some contracts And I will bet that people are valuing them differently on the other side than we value them themselves. And it won't be to the disadvantage of the trader on the other side. I don't get paid based on how ours are valued, so I've got no reason to want to game the system. But there are people out on the other side that do have reasons to game the system. So if I'm valuing some contract at plus a million dollars for Berkshire, That contract on the other side, it's just one piece of paper, should be valued at a minus one million by somebody else. But I think you probably have cases, and I'm not talking about our auditors, I'm talking about all four of the firms. But they have many cases where they are attesting to values of the exact same piece of paper, where the numbers are widely different on both sides. Do you have any thoughts on that, Charlie?

Well, as sure as God made little green apples, this is going to cause a lot of trouble in due course. As long as it keeps expanding and ballooning and so on, and the convulsions are minor, it can just go on and on. But eventually, there will be a big denouement.

My name is Ethan Berg. I'm from Cambridge, Massachusetts, and I'd like to thank you for the education you've provided, particularly with the annual reports. I've got three brief questions. Years ago, you wrote to your friend, Jory Orens, that you were applying to Columbia's business school because they had a pretty good finance department and a couple of hot shots in Graham and Dodd. If you were considering graduate or business school today, with which individuals or professors would you want to study? Second question is a friend who wants to know your thoughts on the concrete, cement, and aggregates business. And the third question is from my wife. You mentioned earlier if someone were buying a parachute, they wouldn't buy based on lowest bid. We saw you tooling around in a car this week that were to be bought today could probably be bought at a relatively low bid. As someone interested in your health, she's wondering whether you've considered a newer automobile.

Possibly one with lots of airbags. Actually, I picked out the car I have based on the fact that it had airbags on both sides. So that was a factor. It may have been the first car of its type ever made with airbags. But I think my car actually, it's both heavy and has airbags. And those are two primary factors in safety. I don't think any... I don't think a safer car is necessarily being made. It might be safer to drive around in a big heavy-duty truck or something, but I'm not ready for that. Incidentally, on a car, I look at that like anything else. It would take me probably a half a day to go through the exercise of buying a car and reading the owner's manual and all that. And that's just a half a day I don't want to give up in my life for no benefit. If I could write a check in 30 seconds and be in the same position I'm in now with a newer car, I'd be glad to do it.

it this afternoon, but I don't like to trade away when there's really no benefit to me at all. I'm totally happy with the car. I just don't want to trade away the amount of time I'd have to spend fooling around to get familiar with and get title to and do all the rest of the things, pick one out, so a new car. But if there's a safer car made, I'll be driving in it. The aggregates business, concrete, all of that, those are businesses, and Charlie probably knows more about them than I do. We've looked at businesses like that. In fact, we've even owned a few shares at one time or another because... It's an understandable business, and it's a business that, particularly if you get into concrete, cement, I mean, you know, there have been periods of substantial overcapacity, particularly on a regional basis. But those are fundamental businesses, and at a price, you know, for low-cost capacity and...

advantageously located raw materials and so on. You know, we would do it. In fact, Charlie and I talked about one probably 10 or 15 years ago, quite a bit. And he's had a fair amount of familiarity with it. And what was the other one? I jotted it down here. Let's see. He wanted to know what business school. Oh, business school. Yeah. Well, I would say this, that that uh i think bruce bruce greenwald's class at columbia is very good he gets in a lot of people but uh that uh are practitioners so there's a lot of practicality to the course and i think bruce is good he's got a new book coming out that that uh probably within the next six months or so that that we'll deal with that and then uh there also has been a endowed at the University of Florida certain courses relating to value investing, and I think there's been one at the University of Missouri.

So I would suggest you at least check out the curriculum at the University of Missouri and Columbia and Florida and do a little comparison and maybe check with a few graduates, recent graduates, as to what kind of experience they had. I think if you can find them, I think that's the best system for evaluating a place. But those three at least have courses that, based on the catalog, sound like they might be of interest to you. Charlie? Yeah. A huge majority of the business school teaching on the field of investment of passive portfolios of securities is not what we believe and not what Warren was taught years ago by Ben Graham. They're just little pockets of our attitude left.  there's one at stanford, jack mcdonald.

yeah, sure.  yeah, that's graduate school.  it's graduate school.  and what's interesting about that is I think it's the most popular course in the whole stanford business school.  they've got some kind of a bidding system.  and yet I asked Jack how he felt, and he said, He said he felt lonely. He's got the most popular course, but in the whole professoriate dealing with investment matters, the Jack McDonalds are a little... clan of their own in a in a side pocket so to speak now they're right and I think it had to take whatever consolation they get from that but but mostly if you go to business school you will learn a lot of things we don't believe yeah Jack Bob Kirby comes in and works with Jack sometimes, too, and Bob has got a terrific mind in terms of investment. So, I mean, there's no question about that.

It's not the easiest school in the world to get into, and it is at the graduate level. But there are these occasional... little anomalies, as they would say, in the teaching world. I mean, what you really want a course on investing to be is how to value a business. That's what the game is about. I mean, if you don't know how to value a business, you don't know how to value a stock. And if you look at what is being taught I think you see very little of how to value a business. And the rest of it is playing around maybe with numbers or Greek symbols or something of the sort. But it doesn't do you any good. I mean, in the end, you have to decide whether you're going to value a business at $400 million or $600 million or $800 million. And then you compare that with the price.

That's that's what investing is and I don't know any other kind of investing, you know basically to do and there that just isn't taught and the reason it isn't taught is because There aren't teachers around, you know, they'll know how to teach it. I mean they don't know themselves and And since they don't know themselves, they teach something that says nobody knows anything, which is the efficient market theory. And if I didn't know how to do it, and if I ever teach physics, I'm going to come up with a theory that nobody knows anything, because it's the only way I can get through the day. It's fascinating to me how the really great universities operate in this respect. If you get a sacred writ, I mean you get in the finance department because you sign on to whatever the present group thinks. And if they think the world is flat, you better think the world is flat too. Your students better answer that the world's flat when they get on exams.

I would say investment finance teaching in this country is in general is kind of pathetic. Well, I think the business schools do a pretty good job when it comes to accounting or personnel management. There are a whole lot of subjects I think they do quite well with, but they miss one enormous opportunity. If you learn to think intelligently about how to invest successfully in businesses, you'll become a much better business manager than you will if you aren't good at understanding what's required for successful investment. So they're missing a huge opportunity to improve the management profession by doing such a lousy job in teaching investment.

Charlie and I see CEOs all the time who, in a sense, don't know how to think about the value of businesses they're acquiring. So they go out and hire investment bankers, and guess what? The investment banker tells them what to do, tells them to do it, Because they get 20x if they do it and x if they don't do it. And guess how the advice comes out. So it's when a manager of a business feels helpless, which he won't say out loud, but inwardly feels helpless in the question of asset allocation, you know, you've got a real problem. And there aren't, they have not gone to business schools that have given them any real help, I think, in terms of learning how to think about valuation in businesses. And, you know, that's one of the reasons that we write and talk about it some, because there's a gap there.

When you try and you've got a wonderful business and you issue shares on it to buy another business, I say at least two times out of three it's a terrible idea. Well, GEICO is a great example. GEICO is a wonderful business. Absolutely wonderful. Gets more wonderful by the day. It has the world's best manager, Tony, nicely running it. GEICO, in the last 20 years, went into at least three other insurance businesses I can think of. They went into Resolute Insurance, which was a reinsurance operation, started in the mid-'80s. It was a disaster. They went into two others, Southern something or other, and another one that started with an M. I don't know why in the hell they would go into them. I mean, they had a great, great insurance business, and there aren't that many great insurance businesses, and neither one of those amounted to anything. I think they sold them off at some point. But why would you have an absolutely wonderful business and...

And start one and buy two others that are obviously mediocre where you bring nothing to the party. But management, it's very human to want to do that. It's no great sin that the Geico management did it because we see it happen time after time after time. I can tell you this. Charlie and I have no urges like that. I mean, we want to buy easy things. We do not have to prove our manhood by doing something terribly difficult. And I think a lot of managements feel that necessity. They've got a wonderful business. The cigarette companies did that. Cigarette companies had these great businesses. And, you know, it irritated them that they...

They like to think they were business geniuses and says so they would go out and buy other things and those other businesses Generally did not do that Well, I'm not saying they should have been in the cigarette business in the first place But they were not business geniuses because they got to make it a lot of money selling an addictive, you know product that did not make them business geniuses And so they wanted to prove it other ways and they bought businesses and fell on their face in many cases Charlie, do you have any more to add on cigarette companies? No, but I think a lot of people rise to the top in publicly held corporations who come up in sales or, you know, engineering or drug development or what have you. And it's natural to assume once you're sitting in the top chair that now you know pretty much everything. or at least how to get wisdom out of this wonderful staff and all these outside advisors that are now available to you.

And so I think it's very natural that perfectly terrible acquisition decisions get made, I'd say more often than not. There he is, six. We have a break in about five minutes. In fact, we'll do this question, then we'll break.

Okay, my name's Paul Tomasek from Illinois. I'd like to talk about your thinking, if you don't mind. In the Fortune magazine article that you sent to all the shareholders, you referenced a practice by Darwin that when he found something that was contrary to his established conclusions, he quickly wrote it down because the mind would have pushed it out. And if you read The Origin of Species, Darwin's very careful to avoid fooling himself. He very carefully asks and answers the hard questions. It's a feedback mechanism, and you've picked up on one of his feedback mechanisms to avoid fooling yourself. So the two questions are this. If you look at model how you think, Charlie thinks, how physicists think, how mathematicians think, you see the same pattern. You want to use logic. You're dedicated to logic. But logic's not enough. You have to avoid fooling yourself. So you build feedback mechanisms.

So the first question is, do you see it that way, that you're thinking just like mathematicians, physicists, and some of the other exceptional businessmen by being logical and being careful to have feedback mechanisms? And the second question is about other feedback mechanisms.  your partnership sitting next to you is a great feedback mechanism.  it's hard to fool yourself when you partner with charlie munger.  right.  this meeting is a feedback mechanism.

Hard to fool him, too.

But that's not an accident. The meeting on one level is a feedback mechanism. The way you attack the annual report letter is a feedback mechanism. So could you comment, both of you, on other feedback mechanisms you developed? Thank you.

Well, you've come up with two very good ones. I mean, there's no question that Charlie will not accept anything I say because I say it, whereas a lot of other people will. I mean, that's just the way the world works. And it's terrific to have a partner.

Who will.

Say you know you're not thinking straight It doesn't happen very often. There's no question that what the human being is best at doing interpreting all new information so that their prior conclusions remain intact. I mean, that is a talent everyone seems to have mastered. And how do we guard ourselves against it? Well, we don't achieve it perfectly. I mean, Charlie and I have made big mistakes because, in effect, we have been unwilling to look afresh at something.

Uh...

Uh you know that happens but we do have i think the annual report is a good feedback mechanism i think that that reporting on yourself and particularly report honestly whether you do it through an annual report or do it through some other mechanism is is very useful but that i would say a partner who is not subservient and who himself is extremely logical, you know, is probably the best mechanism you can have. I would say that on the contrary, to get back to looking at things, you have to.

Have to.

Be sure you don't fall into. I would say the typical corporate organization is designed so that the CEO and biases and previous beliefs are reinforced in every possible way. I mean,

Uh,

Having staff surround you that know what you want to do you are not going to get a lot of.

I get a lot of comments.

Most staffs if they know you want to buy a company You're gonna get a recommendation whatever your hurdle rate of its 15 internal rate of return which very few deals ever work out at you know or 12 or you're gonna they're gonna come back and and and they're gonna come back with whatever they feel that you want and if you arrange your organization so that you basically have a bunch of You know sycophants who are are cloaked in other.

You know, uh...

Titles, you're not going to get, you're going to leave your prior conclusions intact and you're going to get whatever you go in with your biases wanting and the board is not going to be much of a check on that. I've seen very, very few boards that can stand up to the CEO on something that's important to the CEO and just say, you know, you're not going to get it. So you've hit on a terribly important point. All of us in this room want to read new information and have it confirm our cherished beliefs. I mean, it is just built into the human system. And that can be very expensive in the investment and business world. Like I say, I think we've got a pretty good system. And I think that most of the systems aren't very good that exist in corporate America to avoid falling in the trap you're talking about. Charlie?

Yeah, I think it also helps to be willing to reverse course. Even when it's quite painful, as we sit here, I think Berkshire is the only big corporation in America that is running off a derivative book. And we are ready to go. We originally made the decision to allow the general re-derivative book to continue. It's a very unpleasant thing to do to reverse that decision, yet we're perfectly willing to do it. Nobody else is doing it, and yet it's perfectly obvious, at least to me, that to say that derivative accounting in America is a sewer is an insult to sewage. I would second that. I might not have chosen those exact words, and we may not even use those words in describing why we got out of it.

But, yeah, and in the first quarter of this year, we'll show quite a bit of income And anything we say here, we ought to put on the internet, mark.  but i think we'll show, what, 160 million or something like that of financial, or maybe it's 140.  i'll take a look here.  what about 160? 60 odd million of income in that funny little line we have from financial income.  but that will be after an $88 million loss in terms of getting the first steps of getting out of the General Re, what used to be called general re financial products, derivative book. You know, those losses were there. I mean, some of that is the shutdown loss, 30 million or thereabouts is severance pay and that sort of thing.

But the truth is that Derivative accounting is absolutely terrible in this country and there are a lot of companies that will not want to face up To what would be involved if they actually got out now you're seeing Derivative accounting unwound at Enron in a very major way and believe me It's not being unwound at a profit except to the extent of the bankruptcy court lets them disaffirm certain contracts and I mean it is that there was no place for where there was as much potential for phonying numbers at a place like Enron than in the derivative country. They were marking to model. They were doing all these things. You give a whole bunch of traders the ability to create income by putting little numbers down on a piece of paper that nobody can really check. And it, you know, it just, it can get out of control. It will get out of control. And so we decided finally to bite the bullet on it.

And we get out of it. And it would, incidentally, we would not have reported $88 million of loss if we'd stayed in it. Might have reported a tiny profit or something. But in the end... You know the loss was there and there there will be there could well be some more to come in that because Once you get into derivatives I think our longest contract may run 40 years or something like that and then the guy who put the 40-year contract contract on the book probably got paid that week for putting it on virtually. And we've got a bunch of assumptions as to how it's all going to work out over 40 years. You couldn't devise a worse system. In the end, you know, we didn't want to be in the business when we got in it. We are now in the process of getting out. But you don't get out fast of something like this. I mean, you know, it's a little like hell. It's easy to get into, and it's very hard to get out of.

Well, with that, we'll go off to lunch, and I'll see you here in another half hour or so. Thanks.

Hello, Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger. My name is James Claus from New York City, and I just wanted to ask you a question. Both you and Mr. Munger have repeatedly said that you don't believe that business valuation is being taught correctly at our universities. And as a PhD student at Columbia Business School, that troubles me understandably because in a couple of years I'll be joining the ranks of those teaching business valuation. My question isn't what sources such as Graham or Fisher or Mr. Munger's talks you would point people that are teaching business valuation to, but do you have any counsel about the techniques of teaching business valuation?

Well, I was lucky. I had a sensational teacher in Ben Graham, and we had a course there. There's at least one fellow out in the audience here that attended with me, and I Ben made a terrible interest in what we did was we walked into that class and we valued companies and he had various little games he would play with us sometimes he would have us evaluate company A and company B with a whole bunch of figures and then we would find out that A and B were the same company at different points in its history for example and there were a lot of little games he played to get us to think about what were the key variables and how could we go off the track. I remember one time Ben met with Charlie and me and about nine or so other people down in San Diego in 1968 or so and he gave all of us a little true-false test and we all thought we were pretty smart and we all flunked.

But that was his way of teaching us that teaching us that a smart man playing his own game and and working at fooling you could do a pretty good job at it but I would you know if I were teaching a course on investments there would be simply one valuation study after another with with the students trying to identify the key variables in that particular business and evaluating how predictable they were first, because that is the first step. If something is not very predictable, forget it. You know, you don't have to be right about every company. You have to make a few good decisions in your lifetime. But then when you find the important thing is to know when you find one where you really do know the key variables, which ones are important, and you do think you've got a fix on them.

Where we've been where we've done well Charlie and I made a dozen or so very big decisions relative to net worth, but not as big as they should have been. And we've known we were right based on those going in. I mean, they just weren't that complicated, and we knew we were focusing on the right variables and that they were dominant. And we knew that even though we couldn't take it out to five decimal places or anything like that, we knew that in the general way we were right about them. And that's what we looked for, the fat pitch. And that's what I would be teaching, trying to teach students to do. And I would not try to teach them to think they could do the impossible. Charlie? Yes, if you're planning to teach business valuation, and what you hope to do is teach the way people teach real estate appraising.

So you can take any company, and your students, after studying your course, will be able to give you an appraisal of that company, which will indicate... Really its future prospects compared to its market price. I think you're attempting the impossible Yeah, probably on the final exam I would I would take an internet company and I would say the final exam the question is how much is this worth and Anybody that gave me an answer I would flunk Make grading papers easy to.

Well, you've asked two big questions, but you're going to get very small answers, I'm afraid. And that's no disrespect. But we just we don't have we don't think about those things very much. We just are looking for decent businesses. And incidentally, our views in the past wouldn't have been any good on those subjects. And we try to think about two things. We try to think about things that are important and things that are knowable. Now, there are things that are important that are not knowable, in our view, those two questions that you raised fall on that. There are things that are knowable but not important. We don't want to cut our minds up with those. So we say, what is important and what is knowable? And what among the things that fall within those two categories can we translate into some kind of an action? is useful for Berkshire. And we really—there are all kinds of important subjects that Charlie and I, we don't know anything about. And therefore we don't think about them.

So we have our view about what the world will look like over the next 10 years in business or competitive situations. We're just no good. We do think we know something about what Coca-Cola is going to look like in 10 years, or what Gillette's going to look like in 10 years, or what Disney's going to look like in 10 years, or what some of our operating subsidiaries are going to look like in 10 years. We care a lot about that. We think a lot about that. We want to be right about that. We're right about that. The other things get to be, you know, they're just, they're less important. And if we started focusing on those, we would miss a lot of big things. I've used this example before, but Coca-Cola went public in, I think it was 1919. And the first year, one share cost $40. The first year, it went down a little over 50%. At the end of the year, it was down to $19. There were some problems with bottler contracts. There were problems with sugar, various kinds of problems.

If you'd had perfect foresight, you would have seen the world's greatest depression. staring you in the face when when the social order even got questioned you would have seen World War two you would have seen atomic bombs and and hydrogen bombs you would have seen all kinds of things and You could always find a reason to postpone Why you should buy that share of coca-cola? But the important thing wasn't to see that the important thing was to see they were going to be selling a billion eight-ounce servings of beverages a day this year or some large number and and that the person who could make people happy a billion times a day around the globe ought to make a few bucks off doing it. And so that $40, which went down to $19, I think with dividends reinvested has to be well over $5 million now.

And if you develop the view on these other subjects that in any way forestalled you acting on this more important, specific, narrow view, view about the future of the company, you would have missed a great ride. So that's the kind of thing we focus on. Charlie? Yeah, we're not predicting the currents that will come, just how some things will swim in the currents, whatever they are.

Well, that's a good question too. Obviously, the Internet is going to have an important impact on retailing. It will have a huge impact on some forms of retailing, change them and maybe revolutionize them. I think there are some other areas where the impact will be less, but any time we buy into a business, any time we bought in for some time, we have tried to think of what that business is going to look like in five or 10 or 15 years. And we recognize that the internet in many forms of retailing is likely to pose such a threat that we simply wouldn't want to get into the business.

I mean, not that we can measure it perfectly, but there are a number of retailing operations that we think are threatened, and we do not think that's the case in furniture retailing, and we have three very important operations there. We could be wrong, but so far that, you know, that would be my judgment that furniture retailing will not be hurt. You've seen other forms of retailing where you're already starting to see some inroads being made, but it's just started. The Internet is going to be a huge force in many arenas, but it'll certainly be a huge force in retailing. Now, it may benefit us in certain areas. I would expect the internet to benefit Borsheim's in a very big way. And you noticed in the movie that we talked about Borsheim's.com coming online in May. There's something up there now, but you'll see a new format within a month or so.

Now, you might say in jewelry retailing, you know, with millions of things that you can click onto, Ten years from now, you know, who is going to be important in terms of online retailing of jewelry? I would argue that two firms have an enormous advantage going in. I would argue that Tiffany has such an advantage. We don't own any Tiffany, but I would say that because of their name, brand names are going to mean very, very much when you have literally, you know, thousands and thousands of choices. People can't. They have to trust somebody. And I think that Tiffany has a name that people would trust. And I think Borsheim's has a name that people would trust. And Borsheim sells jewelry a whole lot cheaper than Tiffany's.

So I would say that people who are price conscious but also want to deal with a jeweler that they trust implicitly will find their way to to Borsheim's in increasing numbers over the internet. And I would say that people that like the blue box are going to find their way to Tiffany's over time, and they'll pay more money. But I don't see them going for brand X in buying fine jewelry over the internet. So I think that with the brand that Borsheim's has, and with the careful nurturing of that brand, I would say that the Internet offers Borsheims a chance to have the advantage in cost that comes from a huge one-store location and yet also go into the homes of people in every part of the world. And that kind of a company should prosper.

There are other of our companies I worry about, you know, I can worry about them being hurt in various ways. Geico is going to be a big beneficiary of the Internet. We already are developing substantial business through it. But if I were to buy into any retailing business, whether I was buying the stock of it or buying the whole business, I would think very hard about about what people are going to be trying to do to that business through the internet. And, you know, it affects real estate that is dedicated to retailing. If you substitute 5 of the retail volume via the internet where real estate is essentially free, you can have a store in every town in the world through the internet without having any rental expense. So I would give a lot of thought to that if I were owning a lot of retail rental space. Charlie?

Well, I think it is... predicting that technological change either will or won't destroy some business. When I was young, the department stores had a bunch of sort of monopolistic advantages. A, they were downtown where the streetcar lines met. B, they had sort of a monopoly on extending revolving credit. And D, they had one-stop shopping and all kinds of weather. And nobody else did. And they lost all three of those advantages. And Yet they've done well, a lot of them, for many decades since. At other times you get a change and you just get destroyed. Our trading stamp business was destroyed by changes in the economic world, and our World Book business has been seriously hurt by the personal computer and the CD-ROM and so forth.

I agree it's a big risk, but it's not easy to make predictions in which you have great confidence. If you go down to 16th and Farnamere, where the streetcar tracks used to cross, that was the best real estate in town. And people signed 100-year or 50-year leases on it. And it looked like there was nothing more safe because they weren't going to move the streetcar lines. The only thing was that they moved the streetcars. They just took and converted them into junk. And it seemed very permanent. The advantage of the big department store, the Marshall Field in Chicago or the Macy's in New York, was this incredible breadth of merchandise. You could go and you could find 300 different types of spools of thread or 500 different, you could see 500 different wedding dresses or whatever. And you had these million square foot and even two million square foot downtown stores, and they were these huge emporiums. And then the shopping center came along, and of course the shopping center created, in effect, a store of many stores.

And so you had millions of square feet now, but you still had this incredible variety being offered. The Internet becomes a store in your, you know, in your computer, and it has an incredible variety of offerings, too. Some of them don't lend themselves very well, it seems to me, to retailing, and, you know, and others do. But Charlie's right. It's hard to predict exactly how it will turn out. I would expect, you know, automobile retailing to change in in some important ways, and in very significant part influenced by the Internet. But I wouldn't you know, I can't predict exactly how that'll happen. But I don't think it'll look the same 10 or 15 years from now.

Well, the best thing to do is buy a stock that you don't ever want to sell. I mean, and that's what we're trying to do. And that's true when we buy an entire business. I mean, we've bought all of Geico or we've bought all of See's Candy or the Buffalo News. We're not buying those to resell. I mean, what we're trying to do is buy a business that we will be happy with.

if we own it the rest of our lives and we expect to with those it's the same principle applies to marketable securities you get extra options with marketable securities you can you you can add to holdings obviously easier we can never own more than 100 of a business but if we own two percent of a business and we like it at a given price we can add and have four or five percent so that's that's that's an advantage Sometimes if we if we need money to move to another sector like we did last year We will trim from some holdings, but that doesn't mean we're negative on those businesses at all I mean we think they're wonderful businesses or we wouldn't own them and We would sell a if we needed money for other things the Geico stock that I bought in 19 1951 I sold in 1952 it was in a went on to be worth a hundred or more times before the 1976 problems a hundred or more times what I paid but I didn't have the money to do something else so you sell if you need money for something else you may sell if you believe that valuations between different kinds of markets are are somewhat out of whack and you know we have done a little trimming last year and in that matter.

But that could well be a mistake. I mean, the real thing to do with a great business is just hang on for dear life. Charlie? Yes, but the sales that do happen, the ideal way is when you found something you like immensely better. Isn't that obvious? That's the ideal way to sell. And incidentally, the ideal purchase is to have something that you already like be selling at a price where you feel like buying more of it. I mean, we probably should have done more of that in the past in some situations. But that's the beauty of marketplaces. marketable securities. You really do if you're in a wonderful business, you do get a chance periodically maybe to double up in it or something of the sort. If the market if the stock market were to sell a lot cheaper than it is now, we would probably be buying more of the businesses that we already own. They would certainly be the first ones that we would think about. They're the businesses we like the best. Charlie? Nothing more. Okay.

Charlie and I I've thought about options all our life. I mean, my guess is Charlie was thinking about that in grade school. And, you know, and I I mean, you have to understand you don't have to understand black shoals at all, but you have to understand the utility and, in a general sense, the value of options. And you have to understand the cost of issuing options, which is a very unpopular subject in certain quarters. Any option has value. I mean, I bought a house in 1958 for $31,500. And let's assume the seller of that house had said to me, I'd like an option on it, good in perpetuity, at $200,000. Well, that wouldn't have seemed like it cost me much if I'd given it to him. But an option has value. Any option has value.

And that's why some people who are.

Uh...

You know, kind of slick in business matters, sometimes get options for very little or for nothing. I'm not talking about stock options, I'm just talking about an option to purchase anything. They got options for far less than really a market value would be. Black shoals.

Uh... is.

An attempt to measure the market value of options, and it cranks in certain variables, but the most important variable it cranks in that might be subject well, it might be a case where if you had differing views, you could make some money. But it's based upon the past volatility. of the asset involved, and past volatilities are not the best judge of value. I mean, if you'd looked at it.

Had a.

Five-year option on Berkshire stock at various times. Berkshire stocks had a fairly low beta, as they call it. The beta is a measure that people in academia always like to give Greek names to things that are fairly simple, and so that they have sort of a priesthood, you know. So, you know, it's like priests talking in Latin or something. I mean, it kind of cows the laity. But They beta is a measure of past volatility. Berkshire's had a low volatility, but that didn't mean that the option value of it, to anybody that really understood the business, was lower than a stock with a higher beta. And I think Charlie what Charlie said is that last year is that over that for longer-term options in particular,

Um...

Black shoals can give some silly results i mean it it misprices things but it's a mechanical system and any mechanical system in securities markets is going to misprice things from time to time and that's we we made one as i mentioned last year we made one large commitment that basically was had somebody on the other side of it using black shoals and using market prices, took the other side of it, and we made $120 million last year. And we love the idea of other people using mechanistic formulas to price things, because they may be right 99 times out of 100, but we don't have to play those 99 times. We just play the one time when we have a differing view. Charlie, you want to comment on... Yeah, Black-Scholes is what I would call a know-nothing value system.

If you don't know anything at all about value compared with price in other words, if price is teaching you all that can be known, then black shoals on a very short-term basis is a pretty good guess, you know, for what a 90-day option may be worth in some stock or another. The minute you get into longer-term options where you don't have the know-nothing factor so extreme, it's crazy to use black shoals. People use it just because they want some kind of a mechanical system. But at Costco, for instance, within a fairly short period, we issued stock options at 30, and we also issued stock options at 60.

And Black Scholes valued the options we issued at 60 It was a strike price way higher than the options we issued at 30. Well, this is insane. Well, we like a certain amount of insanity. Yeah, well, it's good for Warren, who picked up this extra $120 million. But so he's. He's fonder of this kind of insanity than I am. No, we will pay you real money if you will deliver to our offices at Kiewit Plaza somebody who wants to use the Black-Scholes model and is willing to price 100 options for three years, using the Black-Scholes model and letting us pick and choose among those. Because as Charlie says, it's a know-nothing. affair, and we are know-nothing guys in respect to an awful lot of things, but every now and then we find something where we think we know something.

And anybody that's using a mechanistic formula is going to get in trouble in that situation. But options have value. I mean, we issued options in a sense last year when we sold those the 400 million of bonds. And we know what we're giving up when we sell those bonds. I mean, we may have gotten what a negative coupon of sorts, but that's because we gave up option value. And it wasn't it isn't truly a negative cost instrument at all, because options have value. Let's go to number four.

Thanks, Martin.

Is Bob back there with you, Martin?

Bob and I did spend a lot of time at the racetrack in high school. He was not only the basketball coach at Woodrow Wilson High, but he was also the golf coach. And whenever I wanted to go to the races, he would write an excuse to my other teachers saying that we had to go out for the golf team. And then we would head off to Charleston or Auburn or Grauer or Pimlico or someplace. And... He cleaned up his act subsequently. It's good to have Bob with us. He was known for his famous three iron shots. He was known as Trolley Wire Dwyer in those days. Charlie, do you want to talk about comp a little? Well, as the shareholders know, our system is different from that of most big corporations. We think it's less capricious.

The stock option system will give extraordinarily liberal award sort of by accident to some people and it will deny other people any reward at all at some different time in spite of great contributions made by the people who are getting nothing. So except where we inherit it, we just don't use it. But we must be in a minority far less than 1%, right? It's where we like to be, right. Oh, it's interesting. We inherited some stock options at Berkshire, primarily in the General Re transaction. And not through any failing of anybody or that there's no dispersion to be cast, but at all. But those options turned out to be quite valuable. They would not have been valuable if General Re had been left alone as a standalone company.

They were they profited from the fact that others parts of Berkshire did well, and the money went to the people that had these options who delivered nothing to the performance of Berkshire for a while. Now that's that is not an indictment of anybody in the least, a genree. It's an indictment of an option system, which represents a lottery ticket and also a royalty on the passage of time, because you know an option holder has benefits from retained earnings and benefits not at all from dividends. And that puts his interest maybe quite contrary to that of the shareholders. So we believe in paying for performance, but we believe in tying performance to what is actually under the reasonable control of the person that's being measured.

And we to give a lottery ticket on the overall results of Berkshire Hathaway to someone who is running a business that's 1 of the whole is really crazy. And I would say that you have seen probably more misdirected compensation throughout the corporate system, corporate America in the last five years, you know, than in the hundred years before that. It's been extraordinary. And there was wealth creation in the 90s, just like in the 80s and the 70s and the 60s and the 50s. But there was a wealth transfer like never been experienced before. And you know, you can't blame people for wanting to cash in on it. You know, if anybody wants to walk up and hand me a half a dozen lottery tickets for the Nebraska lottery, you know, I'll accept them.

But it will have nothing to do with how I do in terms of running Berkshire. Actually, Charlie and I think a properly designed option system which includes cost of capital and some other factors and ties it to the performance of the people involved, we think that can make sense. And we've used various incentive programs that are similar to that. But the idea of just passing them out and telling people that for 10 years they get a free ride and then repricing, you know, if your stock goes down, their stock doesn't go down, their option price goes down, you know, that is not our idea of a great compensation system. If we are right with our general approach, It has considerably important implications because the natural implication is that more than 99 of corporate compensation systems are more than a little crazy in America.

And I want to emphasize that Berkshire is not illiberal. I mean, we've got various incentive systems out where people make tens of millions and may make hundreds of millions. So we're not against rewards for people who make vast contributions but a system that's basically capricious and which doesn't tailor the results per person and per activity very well we just think it's crazy we love to see people are associated with Berkshire making money, as long as they're making money for you at the same time. It's very simple. And but we don't want them to get a free ride off your money. Compensation is an interesting subject, and I'm going to write about it next year or something, but you know, it it's not a market system. You can read all you want.

I mean, you know, the PR people will tell you, you know, that Joe Smith's compensation was determined by a market system, and he's just like a baseball player, or anything of the sort. But he's not just like a baseball player. You know, the baseball player negotiates with somebody who's spending his money to hire the baseball player and making a calculation whether he's better off laying out the money out of his own pocket, the owner of the team, to get that player. But when you get a comp committee at a large American corporation, You have somebody with an enormous interest in the amount of comp on one side of the table, and you've got somebody on the other side of the table who was not picked because they were the Doberman of the board, believe me, and who is dealing with what many times is what my friend Tom Murphy used to call play money.

I mean, you know, it's almost meaningless to the person on one side of the table whether somebody gets 100,000 shares of restricted stock or a million shares of restricted stock, and it's not meaningless to the guy on the other side of the table. Almost every other negotiation in American business, you have some parity of concern. but you do not have a parity of concern you know in terms of the uh in terms of comp at the top levels you have a parody of concern when you get down to labor unions i mean the management wants to keep down the prices and the union wants to get more money and you know and and that's a real negotiation and you have you know i mean you have lots of other real negotiations in american business but the compensation in many companies not all obviously but but in many many companies has not been a real negotiation at all. And the management has hired comp consultants to come in, and I have never seen a comp consultant come in and say, We ought to reduce this guy's salary.

I've also never seen a comp consultant come in and say, Why don't you get rid of this bozo? You know, I mean, they can't all be wonderful, but You know, can you imagine a comp consultant doing that and never getting another assignment? It wouldn't happen. So it's a bad system, and it needs improvement. And it may be getting a little improvement. And as I wrote in the annual report this year, what happens with comp is they acid test a corporate reform. Because frankly, the CEOs of America, they don't care whether their boards are diverse or not diverse or anything of the sort. They care about how much money they make in a great many cases. And you, the owners, and big owners in particular, you know, have to provide some countervailing force, or you'll have what you've had in the last 20 years, which is an enormous disparity in the rates of compensation of people at the top compared to people at the bottom, and also a disconnect between the comp of people running businesses and the results of the owners who gave them the money.

So a rise in the shareholder Let's go to number five. Well, the answer is I do believe in dividends in a great many situations, including many of the ones that companies in which we own stock. The test about whether to pay dividends is whether you can... Continue to create more than one dollar of value for every dollar you retain. And there are many business. Take See's Candy, which we own. See's Candy has paid everything virtually out to us that they've earned because they do not have the ability within See's Candy. to use large sums, which they earn intelligently in their business. So it would be an enormous mistake for See's Candy to retain money.

So they distributed Berkshire, and we hope that we move that around in some other area where that dollar becomes worth $1.10 or $1.20 in terms of present value terms. If we do that, the shareholder, whether they're taxable or whether they're not taxable, whether they're a or whether they're living on income even, they are better off if we retain the money. Because if they were going to get a dollar in dividends and it became worth $1.10 or $1.20 in market value immediately on a present value basis, they're better off selling a small percentage of their stock and realizing the required amount that way, and they will have more money when they get all through doing that than if we paid it in dividends. But if the time comes, And it will come someday.

If the time comes when we don't think we can use the money effectively to create more than a dollar of market value per dollar retained, then it should be paid out. And like I say, we do that individually within Berkshire. But because we have this ability to redistribute money, in a tax-efficient way within the company, we probably had more reason to retain all of them. If See's Candy were a standalone company, we would simply pay out a lot of the earnings, practically all of the earnings and dividends, just like we do now, except it goes to Berkshire. We like the companies in which we have investments to pay to us the money they can't use efficiently in their own business. In some cases, that's 100 percent of what they earn. In some cases, it's zero percent of the earnings. We own some stocks that don't pay any dividends. Big opportunities in life have to be seized.

We don't do very many things, but when we get the chance to do something that's right and big, we've got to do it. And even to do it in a small scale is just as big a mistake almost as not doing it at all. I mean, you've really got to grab them when they come because you're not going to get 500 great opportunities. You would be better off if when you got out of school here, you got a punch card with 20 punches on it and every big financial every financial decision you made you used up a punch you'd get very rich because you'd think through very hard each one of you went to a cocktail party and somebody talked about a company he didn't even understand what they did or couldn't pronounce the name but they made some money last week and another one like it you wouldn't buy it if you only had 20 punches on that card there's a temptation to dabble if particularly during bull markets. In stocks, it's so easy. It's easier now than ever because you can do it online. You click it in and maybe it goes up a point and you get excited about that and you buy another one the next day and so on. You can't make any money over time doing that.

But if you had a punch card with only 20 punches... you weren't going to get another one in the rest of your life, you would think a long time before every investment decision. And you would make good ones and you'd make big ones. And you probably wouldn't even use all 20 punches in your lifetime, but you wouldn't need to.

The question on discount rates, we use the same discount, I mean, in theory, we would use the same discount rate across all securities, because if you really knew the cash they were going to produce, you know, that would take care of it. We may be more conservative in estimating the returns of cash from some, but the discount rate we would use is a constant. Now, in terms of where we commit, you know, we don't want to use the fact that short-term rates are 1.25 percent to think that something that yields us 3 percent or 4 percent is a good deal. So we sort of have a minimum threshold in our mind about which we're—below which we're unwilling to commit money. And we're unwilling to commit it whether interest rates are 6 or 7 percent or whether they're 3 or 4 percent or whether they're, on a short-term basis, 1 percent.

We just—we don't want to get hooked into long-term investments at low rates just because they're a little bit better than short rates would be or low government rates. So we have minimum thresholds in our mind. I can't tell you precisely what they are, but they're a whole lot higher than present government rates would be. And at other times, we'd be very happy owning governments just because we feel that they offer attractive enough rates. I would, when we're looking at a business, we're looking at holding it forever. And we want to be sure we're getting an adequate return on capital. We don't regard what we can get on short-term rates now as adequate, but we'll still see. bend a little bit and start settling for lower rates for 30 years because rates for 30 days are so low we would rather just sit it out and wait a while.

The tax on dividends I've used this illustration before, but I'm paying about the same percentage of my income to the federal government as my secretary does. Now, I pay more in income tax rates than she does. I pay a higher margin. tax rate by some margin than she does, but she pays way more in Social Security taxes than I do because I only pay out the first whatever it is, $70,000 or $80,000 of income. And so she's paying between what we pay at the company for and what she pays, we're paying 12 or 13 percent or whatever it is of that. So we both end up paying fairly similar percentages of our income to the federal government every year. If Berkshire were to declare a billion-dollar dividend and my share of it was $330 million and it were tax-free, as the Bush people originally suggested, and it would be tax-free.

I mean, we have lots of taxable earnings at Berkshire. You know, I might be paying one-tenth of the rate to the federal government of my income that she would be. Now, I can make the argument about the fact that structure shouldn't govern tax rates, that subchapter S and subchapter C and partnerships and all of these things that the tax code should be neutral between them. And I've made those kind of arguments in the past. But I can make no argument in my mind that says that I, with everything that, you know, all the luck I've had in life, you know, I was wired a certain way at birth that enabled me to make a lot of money. And frankly, it was better to be born a boy than a girl in terms of money-making possibilities in 1930, and probably still is, but not to the same degree.

I mean, the fact that I would send one-tenth of the portion of my income in a year to the federal government that my secretary would, I it just it screams at injustice to me in terms of what the society gives back to me. So I am not I am not for the I'm not for the Bush plan. Charlie? Well, I agree with you. Even if you assume that the whole economy would work better if we'd never gotten into this double taxation system on corporate earnings, which I don't think is a clear thing anyway, but even if you even if you assume that, I think when you live in a democracy where there's lots of envy and resentment and what have you, to have the absolutely most fortunate people paying practically no income taxes, I just think it's unacceptable.

I think there has to be some fairness in some of these arrangements. even if there's some theoretical argument that the economy might work a little better some other way. Yeah, there are IRAs now, obviously, that work very well for people with modest amounts of dividends, that they they're getting tax deferred for a very long period of time, which has huge benefits. The big benefits of exempting dividends would go to fellows like me and Charlie, you know, and that's not going to stimulate the economy. It's going to stimulate us. But and it's going to result in us sending a very small percentage of our income to Washington compared to what the people working in our shoe factories send.

And when somebody says, what did you do during the war, Grandpa? I'm not sure that's what I want to explain to them. Number three.

Well, the equation is pretty simple, but the practice doesn't necessarily follow logic. It's obviously, as long as you're telling the truth to your shareholders about what's going on so that you aren't manipulating the stock downward or something, when a stock can be bought well below its business value, that probably is the best use of cash. It's something the Washington Post did on a huge scale back in the 1970s. Teledyne may have bought 90 percent or something or close to it of their stock back. And that was the reason a very significant percentage of companies bought stock back in the past, because they actually thought it was selling for less than it was worth. Like I say, that can be abused if you do various things to barrier stock in one way or another, but that wasn't the usual case. Stock repurchases were relatively unpopular in those days.

They've become quite popular now, and to the extent that I've been around a good number of them and been able to pick up on what I thought was the underlying rationale, if not the professed rationale. You know, I think it's often done for people that are hoping that it causes their stock price not to go down. And often done at prices that don't really make a lot of sense for continuing shareholders. If we wanted to return a bunch of cash to shareholders. If our stock was undervalued, we would go to the shareholders and say, we think it's cheap, and we think that this cash can be better used by you than by us, and we will therefore be repurchasing at what we think is a discount intrinsic value, and the people that remain will be better off, and the people that get out will get out at a little bit better price than they would otherwise be.

In terms of dividends, you get into an expectational situation. And for most companies that follow a that pay a cash dividend, it doesn't make sense to be to bounce around the dividend from year to year. Although private companies frequently do that. And we do it ourselves with our subsidiaries. Some subsidiary can pay us a lot of money one year and not so much money the next year. But with public companies, a lot of people do buy stocks to obtain dividends, and they hope for regularity and that there's a signaling aspect to it and everything. I would say that once you establish a dividend policy with a public company, you should think a long time before you change that policy in a material way. But I think the best use of cash, if you don't have a good use for it in the business, if the stock is underpriced, is to repurchase it. And if it's overpriced, you've got no business buying in a single share.

But a lot of companies do it. Charlie? Yeah, dividends are a very interesting subject. If you count the unnecessary stock trading and the cost of investment advice and the cost of making a lot of errors and the trading costs in and out, I don't think it would be too extreme to say that now the total amount that's paid out in dividends is roughly equal to the amount that is wasted in all this trading and investment advice. So that... The net dividends that come to the shareholders are approximately zero. This is a very peculiar way to run a republic, and very few people comment about it. Actually, I did in an article some time ago in Fortune.

The frictional costs to American shareholders in sort of changing shares for all American businesses as a whole, those frictional costs are probably not much different than the entire amount paid out by American corporations. But getting to the individual corporation level, a company that expects regularly earn more than it can profitably employ in its business, should be paying out dividends. Take a subsidiary of ours like See's Candy. We would love to expand See's Candy to double or triple its present size, but it doesn't work. We've tried it a lot of different ways. So it should be paying out its earnings. If it was a public company, and it was at one time, you know, you could argue that something approaching a 100 percent payout would make sense there.

But most managements worrying about earnings falling off at some time in the future would rather establish a lower level and therefore ensure regularity of dividends by going with a conservative level approach. I, you know, we, it's obviously something we think about at Berkshire when we have 30-odd billion dollars around. If we can't figure out a way to employ that over time, you know, it's a mistake to keep it in corporate form. But we have this expectation, and I think it's a reasonable expectation that we get to put it to work. If we ever came to a different conclusion, if we thought our stock was significantly undervalued, we'd probably figure in terms of dispersing it through repurchases, particularly where now dividends and capital gains are neutral for individuals.

If our stock was not underpriced and we fell, we would probably do something via a dividend. It's not going to happen soon, however.

I've never been near the place, but Charlie, who I've never thought of as a health nut, but he may have some comment to make on this being a Californian. No, my idea of a good place to shop is Costco. Costco has these heavily marbled fillet steaks in the finest grade and the idea of eating a little whole grain whatever and washing it down with some carrot juice has just never appealed to me. We don't have a lot of arguments between the two of us about where to eat. Number nine.

That's too soft for me. I think Warren should take that. Well, I would say that at any given point in history, including when stocks were their cheapest, you could find an equally impressive number of negative factors. I mean, you could have sat down in 1974 when stocks were screaming bargains, and you could have written down all kinds of things that would have caused you to say, you know, the future is just going to be terrible. And similarly, at the top, you know, or any time you can write down a large list of of things that would be quite on the bullish side. We don't pay we really don't pay any attention to that sort of thing.

I mean, we have you might say that our underlying premise and I think it's a pretty sound underlying premise is that this country will do very well And in particular, it will do well for business. Business has done very well. The Dow went from 66 to... 10,000 plus in the 100 years of the 20th century, and we had two world wars and nuclear bombs and flu epidemics and you name it, Cold War. There's always problems in the future. There are always opportunities in the future. And in this country, the opportunities have won out over the problems over time.

And I think they will continue to do so absent weapons of mass destruction which is another question and business won't make much difference if anything really drastic happens along that line so We don't I can't remember any discussions Charlie and I have had ever going back to 1959 where we would have come to the conclusion at the end of them that we would have passed on a great business opportunity, a business to buy. because of external conditions, nor did we ever buy anything we thought was mediocre simply because we thought the world was going to be wonderful. It won't be the American economy, in my view, that does in investors over a five or ten or twenty year period. It will be the investors themselves.

If you look at the record of the 20th century, you'd say, how could anybody have missed and owning equities during that time, and yet we had all kinds of people wiped out in the '29-'32 period. We had all kinds of things that were bad, but if you would just own stocks right straight through, didn't leverage them, you would have gotten a perfectly decent return. So we're unaffected.

In essence by the by the variables you mentioned just show us a good business tomorrow and we'll jump at the hook Charlie Yeah, I think but it's also true that both of us have said at various times over the last three years that we wouldn't be at all surprised if professionally invested money in America had a pretty modest result over a fairly extended period of the future compared to the very dramatically high returns that it had achieved up to about three years ago. And so far, that's been proved out to be pretty much right. Certain stretches are easier than other stretches. Yeah, our expectations were more modest than most people's a few years ago. We didn't say the world was coming to an end or anything.

We just said that people have gone crazy in certain sectors and that anybody that thought that that you could, you know, sit at home and day trade and make double-digit returns over time or do anything, that you were entitled to that, you know, by just sticking a little money in your 401 or something, was really living in a fool's paradise. But that was never accompanied by any predictions of disaster for the American economy as a whole or for American business as a whole. It's people get crazy notions from time to time in financial markets and I would comment on this earlier, but they just believe things that there's It's hard to understand how they can believe now. So some extent they get sold up by other people but American business Really is has never let investors down or there's a group but investors have done themselves in quite frequently.
and Charlie, my name is Peter Brocci from Beverly, Massachusetts, and I would like to thank you both for helping me become a better businessman and a better investor. Perhaps more importantly, you have created by example a kind of true north on the moral compass for me to steer by. While the education has been fantastic, I have found that the demands of owning a successful business and having a large family do not leave time to apply the research stance I have become so wonderfully accustomed to by being a member of this cult. Please imagine for a moment that you are 30 years younger and have only a few holes left in your investment punch card. If you were in my situation, to the extent that you would diversify your holdings beyond Berkshire Hathaway, given this environment, how would you choose the investment managers?

Charlie, why don't you take a swing at that? CHARLIE MUNGER Well, of course, you're hunting. That's part of the fun of life. But I would say the chief lesson would be that You're unlikely to find very many in a whole lifetime. And when you find one in which you really have thought it out and have confidence, for God's sakes, don't do it in a niggardly fashion. The idea that very smart people with investment skills should have hugely diversified portfolios is madness. It's a very conventional madness. And it's taught in all the business schools, but they're wrong. The question of finding other advisors is a tough one.

I mean, when I wound up my partnership in 19 at the end of 1969, and I had all these partners that had counted on me, and I was going to mail them back a lot of money, you know, I felt an obligation to at least suggest some alternatives for them. And I recommended two people who I knew were exceptionally good and exceptionally honest. We put one of them on the board not long ago and reaffirmed it today. Sandy Gottesman, the other one was Bill Ruane. Now, I'd been around the investment world for a long time at that point, and those were the two I knew, but they were more or less contemporaries of mine, and I'd gotten to know them over the years, and I'd seen them for a long time. So I not only knew their results, but I knew how they'd accomplish their results, which is terribly important.

I don't know that generation of managers now, but the fact that with the number of people I knew that I could only come up with two at a time when I was very active, says something about the difficulties of finding managers. The one thing I can almost guarantee to you is that the promotional types going around to solicit the institutional investors are very unlikely to meet any long-term tests of of ability and sometimes integrity. It's not an easy job spotting an investor. I think it's probably easier depending on the amount of time, you know, you mentioned having children in the business and the amount of time you can spend on it. Every now and then you do, if you're conscious of the investment world and you have some kind of sort of grounding knowledge about what's going on, you can see something.

You know, as we did in junk bonds a couple of years ago, or as we did with all kinds of things some years back when stocks were cheaper, you will occasionally see something that you should load up on. And Charlie says that's what you really have to do. I mean, some of the people in this room loaded up on Berkshire many years ago. And the truth was they didn't need diversification. I loaded up on it, Charlie did. And you'll see opportunities occasionally, but you're not going to see them every day or every week. If you think you're going to see an opportunity every week, you're going to lose a lot of money because people will come around and tell you that they've got them, and they may not be quite as flagrant as that fellow we had in the movie, but they're a version of that. Charlie? Yeah. The business of selecting investment managers was recently shown to be even harder than I had previously thought it was.

A significant fraction of the institutional investment managers who run the nation's mutual funds actually accepted propositions to take bribes for betraying their own shareholders. It was as if a man came to you and said, I have a wonderful proposition. Why don't I kill your mother and we'll split the insurance money? And it was that ridiculous. And yet a significant number of the people said, gee, I would like some insurance money. And they just went right ahead. And they were already rich beforehand. Yes. And they've destroyed themselves, many of them, by making this insane decision. And I think many of them probably think the outcome is unjust. I mean, the downfall they've had.

And the interesting thing about it, of course, is that here is a huge industry that where the people who weren't doing it have a great interest in having that reputation of the industry not get stained, And a number of them had to know what was going on. I mean, this would, I don't, it's hard for me to imagine that people at most large mutual funds, even the ones that didn't, or mutual fund management companies, even the ones that weren't engaging in the activities mentioned, weren't aware of it. I mean, you just, if you're in an industry like that, you're going to hear what's going on. And the Investment Company Institute was busy patting itself on the back back, you know, one meeting after another and becoming very cozy with legislators. And it wasn't one thing done until a whistleblower went to Eliot Spitzer and said, And he got active in a very strong way with a very limited staff.

And he uncovered and put on the front pages what was taking place. But the industry itself, with hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of people that must have known what was going on, And it went on for a long time. Never said a word. It makes you wonder a little bit. Number three. Number three.

Well, when there are market dislocations, there are always ways to take advantage of it. But we'll leave for you the joy of searching for those. But there have been some really important dislocations. And I brought along, just for your amusement, a few figures on something that we've done recently, but it doesn't have any big significance for Berkshire. I mean, Berkshire will make some extra money out of this. It doesn't take any time to think about. But it does illustrate just how dramatic the changes were. And The ones I brought along relate to the tax-exempt money market funds. There were $330 billion of these. That's a lot of money, $330 billion. And they relied on repricing of really almost all cases, first grade municipal bonds.

Every seven days they had these auctions and it was all set up very elaborately so that people could have their money more or less in their minds instantly. recently available in something that was tax exempt, and they were marketed extensively.  and I brought along, for example, here's one that related to the they were backed by various municipal issues.  this happens to be one by the l.a.  county museum of Art.  just pull that out. January 24th, it was marketed at 3.15%. January 31st, 4.0%. February 7th, 3.5%. February 14th, 8%. Now, how can a tax-exempt bond of short-term nature be selling at a 3.5 rate one week and one week later on Valentine's Day be at 8 and one week after that be at 10 It's now back to 4.2 percent. Now, those are huge dislocations in markets. That's crazy.

It'd be one thing to be some little obscure item, but this happened with billions and billions and billions of dollars of securities. It even happened, we get these bid sheets every day, and this happens to be a bid sheet, I think from Citigroup, and they were repricing these every day. every seven days. And what you would find on these, you'll see there's lots of issues involved. The same issue would appear on several different pages because it would represent some different auction, although handled by the same broker at the same time. On one page, you would find an issue. We would bid all these. We happen to bid these at 11.3%. On one page, we bought them at 11.3%. On another page, the same issue, we bid the 11.3%, and somebody else bid 6%. So you had the same issue with the same broker at the same time being sold at 11.3 and 6%.

Those are markets of extreme dislocation, and you find those occasionally. You found that after the long-term capital management crisis in 1998. You found the equivalent of it in the stock market in 1974 and so on. And those are great times. to make unusual amounts of money and if you there's certain things we can't figure out i see in the wall street journal i see advertisements these days of auctions taking place in some esoteric mortgage securities. If you had enough time, you could probably figure out some of those that were very mispriced. We don't fool around with that. We just don't have the time. We were able to do four we have about $4 billion in this right now. When we get all through, we'll have made some extra money for a couple of months. It won't be significant in relation to Berkshire's size, but it's something that's very easy to do.

You may be able to find, by working very, very hard, on some smaller issues, you might be able to find in this mess in mortgages, and it's gone beyond subprime. It's gone into all the A's, and it's gone into option arms and that sort of thing. There very well could be some great opportunities out there that Charlie and I will no longer spot because we just can't be looking at that many things. Charlie? Yeah, what is interesting is that how brief These opportunities to take advantage of dislocations frequently are. Some idiot hedge fund bought unlimited municipal bonds at, you know, incredible margins. I think they bought 20 times more municipal bonds than they could afford with their own money, borrowing all the rest. And when those things were dumped on margin calls, municipal bonds suddenly got mispriced in America.

But the dislocation... was very brief. So you But very extreme. But very extreme. And so if you can't think fast and act resolutely, it does you no good. So you're like a man standing by a stream trying to spear a fish, and the fish just comes by once a week or once a month or once every 10 years. And you've got to be there to throw that spear fast before the fish swims on. It's a pretty demanding business if you do it right. But there have been times, I mean, in the junk bond market, there was a three or four month period in 2002 where some really incredible things happened, and they happened on a large scale. Yeah, it happens about twice a century. Yeah. Which means he and I have only had four or five times when we could do it. Yeah, right.

Well, that's a good question. And of course, first, in recognition of the fact that they can be traps and that you and that you will be affected by them and you will make some mistakes because of them. But. Charlie, in his, in Poor Charlie's Almanac, which I probably do take credit for the name of, and the, he talks about the various psychological traps that people fall into, and simply reading that section, you will come away wiser than before you started on it. We will Our personalities are such that Charlie and I probably are a little less prone to some of those mistakes than other people are. But as our record clearly indicates, we still are prone to them. And we make them and we'll make them again.

We're probably a little less inclined to make some of them than we were 30 or 40 years ago. But, you know, the nice thing about it is, though, is that if you make fewer of those mistakes, and others, you know, they will continue making their share and you'll get very rich. Charlie? Yeah, you don't have to have perfect wisdom to get very rich. All you've got to do is have slightly more than other people on average over a long time. It's the old story about the guy outrunning the bear. I mean, I don't have to outrun the bear, I just have to outrun that other fellow. And Number five. I think what has happened at Berkshire is just wonderfully for the good. And I do think we have a perfectly marvelous board.

What makes me sad, as I said earlier, is I don't see more of the same practice followed elsewhere. A director getting $150,000 a year from a company who needs it is not an independent director. That director automatically becomes an inside director. And so it's a typical government intervention. It's just it says it's doing one thing and it does another. I have never I've been on 19 boards. I've never seen a director where the director's fees were important to them. object to an acquisition proposal, object to a compensation arrangement of the CEO, it's just never happened, you know, in my experience. And, you know, they do not they frequently do not behave as they would if they owned the place.

Basically, we want people that behave as if they own the place. The correct system is the LAHU root system. LAHU root, who had three different cabinet appointments, if I remember right. said no man was fit to hold public office who wasn't perfectly willing to leave it at any time. And if L.A. Hubert didn't approve of something the government asked him to do, he could always go back and be the most sought-after lawyer in the world. He had an identity to go back to, and he didn't need the government's salary. And I think that ought to be more the test in corporate directorships. Is a man really fit to make tough calls who isn't perfectly willing to leave the office at any time? My answer is no.

Yeah, we have one of our directors who's been removed twice from compensation committees of other corporations because he had the temerity to actually question whether the compensation arrangement being suggested was the appropriate. I mean, it's not it's being put on the comp committee of American corporations. As I've said, they're not they're looking for chihuahuas and not Great Danes and Boebermans and yeah. And I hope I'm not insulting any of my friends that are on comp committees. You're insulting the dogs. Okay, number one. Number seven.

I think I want to let Charlie answer that one first. Yeah, I would argue that that may be one that you shouldn't ask. Or let's put it this way, I think you should answer it with several interesting examples before you ask us to answer. That's a little dirty. It's interesting. As Charlie was talking, I can't think of a lot of difficult I can think of a lot of wrong decisions I've made. But I certainly can't think of I can't think of anything I agonized over making for any long period of time. Like I say, that isn't you know, I mean, it's calling balls and strikes. I mean, you got a second there, and if you don't do it, you're no longer an umpire.

So I've made plenty of wrong decisions. I'm going to make plenty more. That's just part of living. But I don't think in terms of being difficult as measured by the time it took me to do it or the not a lot of them pop to mind, and if they do, I'll probably give you the same answer as Charlie. Charlie, if you thought Have you thought of any more there while we were talking? Let's go on to another. Okay. That was not a bad decision. Number eight.

Thank YOU.

Yeah, well, the U.S. has been pretty remarkable, as I indicated in my earlier comment. I mean, you know, essentially the same population pool, pretty much. And they've garnered over this 215-year period a remarkable share of the world's wealth. And it's an interesting question as to just why this group of people here have been able to do so much better than the rest of the world, considering we're not any smarter or anything of the sort. It's not an economic castle anymore. I wouldn't call it that. What we do is no secret. And I think that the relative importance of America, I mean, we have been a dominant factor in the world and post-world war ii.

i think it will decline somewhat, although I'm not an alarmist on that, but I think to some extent the rest of the world, or some of the rest of the world, is catching on and adopting, you know, sort of best practices, as they say in industry.  and our Our castle will grow in size, but there will be more castles around it, and I basically think that's a very good thing for the world. I think the more prosperous generally the rest of the world is, the better generally it will be for us. And I've talked about our trade problems. The more trade we have, the better. We had 1.1 trillion of real trade last year in the country. We would have with the world, and then we had another $600 billion, six-tenths of a trillion, that unilaterally we bought. Well, I would love to see the $1.1 trillion grow and grow and grow. It would be good for us and good for the rest of the world.

But I don't think that our prosperity will come in the future will come at the expense of the rest of the world at all. I do think that there were parts of the world that will grow economically from a lower base, but much faster than the U.S. And basically, I think that's a good thing. I mean, there's six billion people in this world, and a lot of them don't live very well. And I would hope that 20 or 50 years from now that a higher percentage of them would live well. But I don't think it comes out of our hide at all. Charlie? Well, I don't think it comes out of our hide in that sense, but if we are now the richest and most powerful nation, in the world and 50 or 100 years from now, we're now the richest and most powerful nation in the world and 50 or 100 years from now, we're a poor third to some country in Asia.

Sure, we're richer, but it's a peculiar type of richness where you've lost your relative position in the world. It's not all. I think if I had to bet, I would bet that the part of the world that does best is Asia in terms of percentage gains per annum. And I think it might do amazingly well if it doesn't blow up in some way. And if it does amazingly well, it will eventually be a much richer place than ours. My understanding is that the University of Florida has instituted a couple of courses that actually Mason Hawkins gave them a significant amount of money to finance, and I believe they're teaching something other than efficient markets there. There's a very good course at Columbia, I know, that gets a lot of visiting attention.

teachers to come in. I go in there and teach occasionally, but a number of practitioners do. So I think the efficient market... Theory is less wholly written now than it was 15 or 20 years ago and in and universities, but it's It's there's a lot of it taught but I think you can find more diversity in what is being offered now than 10 or 20 years ago and I'd recommend, you know looking into those two schools, you know, it's really quite useful and If you had a merchant shipping business, if all of your competitors believe the world is flat, you know, it is a huge edge because they will not take any... They will not take on any cargo to go to places that are beyond where they think they will fall off. And so we should be encouraging the teaching of efficient market theories in universities. It amazes me.

But, you know, I think one time that— Was it Keynes that said that most economists are most economical about ideas, that they make the ones they learned in graduate school last a lifetime. And what happens is that you spend years getting your Ph.D. in finance and you learn theories with a lot of mathematics in them that the average layman can't do, and you become sort of a high priest. And you get an enormous amount of yourself and ego and even professional security invested in those ideas, and it gets very hard to back off after a given point.  and I think that to some extent has contaminated the teaching of investing in the universities.  charlie? charlie munger well, i would argue that the contamination was massive. But it's waning. Yeah, it is waning.

It's waning. The good ideas eventually triumph.

I enjoyed it, but it started off the performance with my report card from just about the middle of junior high school in Washington. From there it gets better. We started at the low point, or Peter did, and he changes a little every time I watch. And one time out in Los Angeles I performed with him, had my ukulele with me, and for some reason he hasn't asked me back to do that. But I look forward to attending any of his performances. Well, I probably developed a great many of my ideas from my dad. All three of his children just loved him unconditionally as he loved us. He was not a preacher to us in any way, shape, or form, but we...

We picked up things from a little bit of what he said, but mostly how he acted. And the idea that all lives have equal value is something that I think both of my sisters, as I felt since I can remember, I talk sometimes about the O'Varian lottery and the truth is that I'm here in my position as a matter of luck. I mean, that was the most important thing that happened to me was the woman from which I came, the parents I had, the wiring I had, and I didn't have anything to do with that. My dad talked at the dinner table about that famous lynching that took place. It was around 1920, plus or minus a couple of years, and my dad went down and saw Mob Out of Control.

There was a very famous editorial written in the Omaha World-Herald subsequently, may have won a Pulitzer, I'm not sure, about mob rule, and my dad would talk to all of us at the dinner table about it. what happens when mob thinking takes over.  it obviously applied in that lynching, but it applied plenty of other places too.  i didn't really have memories of segregation in Omaha, but when we moved to Washington, I went to alice deal junior high school and just a few blocks maybe less than that, no, away, there was a school for black children, and I had some good friends there, actually, who were black.  one of the paper boys I used to associate with, and I caddied at the chevy chase country club.  i was the only white caddy there.  i wasn't worth beating up for, If there had been more of us, I think there would have been more trouble. But, so I saw what was going on.

I saw a little bit in Fredericksburg, Virginia, too, in the movie theater there. The blacks sat in a different section than whites, so it never made sense to me. Well, I helped a bit when—that was in the '60s when there was fair housing legislation in Lincoln. My wife was more active than I was, though. She constantly worked.

group she worked with where there was a Jew and a black and she was the wasp and they they went around and made presentations at various clubs and that sort of thing and and so she was she was more active than I was but I was a hundred percent with her mentally and I was just working a little more on my own investments there was an incident at the end of the 1960s where I was going to join what had been an all-Jewish country club. And that created quite a ruckus there for a couple of months. And after it took place, then everything straightened out. The club that I belonged to that had turned down a Jewish friend of mine, which made me quite irritated, and was the cause for me to join the Jewish club. What existed in whatever it was, 1969, a few years later just changed dramatically in that respect.

I remember when Bob Gibson, who was the terrific baseball player, and they had something in Omaha called the Exarbon Ball, which was a very, very big deal in the past. Still is a big deal, but it was a much bigger deal then. And eight or ten thousand people would gather at the Exarbon Auditorium for something of a civic nature and social nature, and there wasn't a black face there. And then finally they invited— Bob's two, one or two of his daughters to participate and that was a big event, that was a big change in the mid-70s. There's been, there's a lot of, a lot of progress that's still needed but I've seen progress take place in my lifetime both more with, probably more with females than, than, than with blacks. I've seen anti-semitism drop dramatically in Omaha, Now maybe people just don't talk to me about it when they feel that way now.

But I was a member of the Rotary Club in the 1960s and finally they put me on some secret membership committee and I learned what some of the people on that committee thought about how they made selections. And it was amazing to me that in Omaha, Nebraska in the 1960s that people would say, Well, we've got enough Jews, or something like that. Well, when I got out of business school at Columbia, I had a hero there named Ben Graham who did wonders for me in all kinds of ways in my life. But when I got out of school, I said, Can I go to work for you? For nothing. I was sort of hoping that if he said yes, he would then decide to pay me. He told me that his little firm, which only employed about six or seven people, that there was so much prejudice then in wall street.

wall street was divided then between Jewish firms and Gentile firms.  there were a couple like Kuhn, maybe, that were known as Jewish firms, and there would be others that were known totally as Gentile firms. Ben said that because that prejudice existed and he'd experienced it that he he felt that to the extent that they had any employment to offer with six or seven people that they would They hired up to that point only Jews So I came out to Omaha and sold stocks and said but I kept pestering him for a while and a few years later They hired me. I was the first Gentile hired I remember that speech that Martin Luther King gave, I think it was in the fall of 1967. That was one of the most inspiring speeches I've ever heard.

I tried to get a copy for many, many years, and finally about a year or two ago, a fellow who now runs Morehouse, found a copy and sent it to me. And when I read it today, I think it's even better than when I heard it. I mean, it's a remarkable speech. No, I knew about King. I mean, but it was different knowing about King and listening to King. He took me right out of my seat. My wife was with me, and we both had the same experience. And of course, six months later, he was dead. It was interesting. In that speech, he talked about truth forever on the scaffold, wrong forever on the throne, but that scaffold sways the future. Well, he was going to be dead in six months, but that scaffold did sway the future. The genes must have gone bad, I guess. I grew up...

We couldn't sit around the dinner table. They wouldn't let me eat my hamburger until we'd said a few bad things about Roosevelt. So it was a very Republican household. Of course, my dad got elected as Republican. I campaigned for him. My sisters campaigned for him. So I... I even ran for the, as a delegate to the Republican National Convention in 1960 for reasons that were sort of unrelated to the normal political reasons. I waited until after my dad died before I changed my registration. I didn't see any reason to do it, but I changed my ideas, and not in one fell swoop, but I changed my ideas in the years preceding 1964 when he died. I was president of the Young Republicans Club at the University of Pennsylvania and was going to ride an elephant down Woodland Avenue when Dewey won, but there won my moment of fame when the Illinois I don't know how many terms came in. Civil rights changed my views.

I just felt that the Democratic, on balance, the Democratic, neither party cared very much about it there for a while, but I felt that the Democratic Party was more likely to do something about it. It just struck me as fundamentally wrong that almost 200 years after this country was born that, you know, in 1776 Thomas Jefferson wrote, All men are created equal, and then when they wrote the Constitution they all of a sudden decided that, no, it was just three-fifths of a person if you were black. I mean, that struck me as kind of crazy. And of course, In Article 2, Section 1, they use male pronouns in terms of describing the presidency. They don't do it with the House of Representatives or the Senate or the judiciary, but they sort of slipped up, and their true feelings came out in that article, which is really remarkable. It's hims and hees and all of that sort of thing, 13 years after the Declaration of Independence said otherwise.

I voted for JFK, right. I didn't actively campaign for him. My dad was still alive then. My sister, my older sister was working very hard for Goldwater, so she started something or worked with it called Gold for Goldwater. So I didn't say we'd have two branches of the family nullifying each other. Well, there's an interesting story on President Nixon. My dad first got elected in 1942. And then in 1946, the Republicans won control of the House of Representatives for the first time since 1930. And one night, Joe Martin, who was to become Speaker of the House for the Republicans, came over to our house.

and told my dad that because of the Republican majority there was an open seat on the house un-american activities committee, and he offered it to my dad, and my dad said, No, thanks.  he wasn't interested in that seat.  so then Joe Martin went to a newly elected congressman named Richard Nixon and offered it to him, and that's the way history develops. I've always been fascinated by politics and politicians fascinate me. Nixon was a very interesting character. He was a very smart man, but he self-destructed. One of the interesting, probably the book I'd really like to read is Why Smart People do dumb things. I've seen it all my life. I've seen it in finance, I've seen it in politics, I've seen it in marriages, all kinds of things. Why should bar people do dumb things? Because Nixon destroyed himself.

I was able to purchase Washington Post—I owe Nixon a great thank you—because I was able to buy Washington Post stock very cheap because Nixon had encouraged Bebe Rebozo, I believe, to challenge two licenses for TV stations that the Washington Post had in Florida, Jacksonville and miami.  and washington post stock took a quick nosedive from about $37 a share down to $16. Even if those two stations have been taken away the stock was worth many multiples of the price had got to And they weren't going to take it away anyway, so President Nixon did me a huge favor financially when he got me me to challenge those licenses Well, Catherine Graham was a remarkable woman. I mean, she was the daughter of Eugene Meyer, who was a huge figure in Wall Street, in Washington.

I mean, he went, he started in Wall Street with a very small sum and went on to become, he was actually chairman of the Fed. He was, I think, the first head of the RFC. I think he may have been the first head of the World Bank. He was a remarkable man. And he had five children, but Catherine Graham ended up being the heir to the washington post.  eugene meyer had bought it in the early 30s and it lost money year after year after year until it finally merged with the Times Herald around 1960, but Catherine Graham she'd been intimidated about her business ability and a lot of other abilities, both by her mother and by her husband. And she had this idea that men were going to be better at business or anything related to it.

than women, but she also had an inner strength that so when her husband died and she was, had the responsibility for either taking over the paper or just sitting back and collecting dividends from it, she gritted her teeth and stopped her knees from at least knocking so people could hear them and and said, you know, she was going to take on the the job of running the Washington Post company and She backed Ben Bradley the editor of the Post in the Watergate Scandal at a time when Politicians were opposing her, other news organizations were not picking up on it.  the Washington Post was out there all by itself.  and, you know, it changed the world, that piece of journalism.

she'd earlier done the same thing, actually, with the Pentagon Papers a couple years earlier in 1971 when Daniel Ellsberg came to the Post with the papers.  and the new york times, i think, had them first, but they were... They were stopped from publishing to some extent. And, and Kay, uh, Katherine Graham Kay, uh, said to Ben, to Ben Bradley, uh, uh, you know, run the presses. You don't have much choice. If there's a choice between looking to the past and looking to the future, believe me, look to the future. I've really never been much for beating myself up over mistakes or anything of the sort. There's nothing you can do about it. The only thing you can change is the future. And I'm in a business where I'm going to make plenty of mistakes, and that just comes with the territory.

You move forward although when when K Graham died I was really hit That was that was a that was a terrible time That's probably I I never thought of it that way but I I think I think I Think it's fair to say that I'm an eyelidist. I I don't think people have any business thinking of themselves as elite I mean they They may have been born with the potential for more IQ or for that matter, you know, able to kick a football further or dance better than somebody else. And they no doubt work to perfect their skills and all of that. But it really gets back to every human has equal value. And, you know, I could be...

Could have been born well when I was born in 1930 the odds were probably 40 to 1 against me being born in the United States I did win the ovarian lottery on that first day and on top of that I was male and if I'd been female my life would have been far far different so Put that down as another 50 50 50 shot and now the odds are 80 to 1 against being being born a male in the United States and it was enormously important in my whole life the fact that I was born in 1930 as a male in the United States. So to think that that makes me superior to anyone else as a human being is just, to me, I can't follow that line of reasoning.

Women, it's amazing, you know, the 19th Amendment was passed in 1920, so we went a very long time before we even got around to codifying that. But when I was born in 1930, I had sisters, one on each side a couple years each way, they're just as smart as I am, they did not have the same shot in life. I mean, they were just, without anybody saying it, my parents loved us all equally, but they did not have the same expectations for us. The teachers all felt the same about us in terms of wanting to help us and all of that sort of thing, but they were delivering messages, you know, without knowing it, that told my sisters that their job was to marry well, and if they decided to go to work, that they should be either retail clerks or nurses or teachers or, you know, maybe secretaries, and that was it.

So you had half the talent in the United States, half the talent that was told to sort of sit on the sidelines, and, you know, it always struck me as totally wrong that it made me realize how lucky I was that I was male but on the other hand you can look at the flip side and say it's quite encouraging because if you look at what this country accomplished you only using half of its talent you know just think of the potential for the future I'm enormously bullish on America over the future and part of the reason is that that we buy some rather stupid decisions that probably weren't even thought out that much we're sort of inherited thousands of years of male behavior, but we essentially put half our talent on the sidelines and we're making a lot of progress on that now, but we've got a ways to go.

It really doesn't make any difference to me except for the fact that since I feel that women have gotten the short end of the stick for a long time, that if it's a 50/50 choice, I'd rather give the opportunity to the woman. I think that I'm lucky enough in life, I know I'm lucky enough in life, to be able to associate pretty much with whom I want to in business or socially or wherever. I think it's sort of crazy. I think the ideal thing is to focus with people that are better than you are because you will move in the direction of the people you associate with. And I advise students all of the time, you know, marry up. Marry somebody better. It can't be done mathematically if everybody tries to do it, but you will, your behavior will move in the direction of the people you associate with. So why not associate with the best?

I mean, I've had a number of heroes in life, and associating with them has done wonders for me. I wouldn't not have been the same person, I would not have had the same fun in life if I'd been indiscriminate in terms of who I associate with over time. Well, you can start with my heroes.  you start with my dad.  you move on to Ben Graham.  you move on to my partner, charlie munger.  kay graham was definitely a hero of mine.  my wives have been heroes in both cases.  they've all done wonders for me and basically not expected anything in return.  i mean, I have these... friends that they do ten things for me and they're thinking about doing the eleventh rather than whether they're going to get one in return from me.

I've been lucky in life that I've never had a hero that's let me down. That would be a terrible experience to really have your belief in somebody that you sort of worshiped shattered and it's never happened to me. Loyalty and yeah, my partner Charlie Munger in business for example, we don't keep score. You know, who's done the most work or anything of the sort and in a marriage that's important. I mean it, but it's, I literally, I had a fellow named Lorimer Davidson at GEICO who spent four hours with me on a January day in 1951. He changed my life.

He had no expectation he was going to get a thing from me, but I came there on a Saturday and banged on the door of what was then called Government Employees Insurance, now called GEICO, and a janitor finally let me in, and he was the only one in the office, this fellow, Lorimer Davidson, and he spent four hours with me giving me an education that literally did change my life, and You're very very fortunate in life when you run into people like that Ben Graham I mean he never asked anything of me I mean he just basically gave I mean he was he taught for 25 years or so at Clark Columbia, and he was creating future competitors. I mean, I'm sure he didn't—if he took any money for it, he gave it right back to the school. But he just—he basically was—somebody said he was planting trees that other people would sit under. And I've had a number of them like that. It's been wonderful.

Well, I like teaching, so it's a little unfair. It's like I'm making a sacrifice when I do it. I'm still at 84. I've got 40 schools that will come out this school year from all over, including outside the country. I have one school from Brazil that comes, and another one came from China. week or so ago, you know, I had Harvard but at the same time I had Western Ontario and so I enjoy but I enjoy it and At the start of every year I kind of feel I'm not sure what I want to do this again So I start talking to the students I get energized because it's so much fun Just looking at a bunch of people who got their futures ahead of them They're forming ideas or forming behavior patterns and and they're eager to learn and they come a thousand miles or 1,500 miles to talk and and I probably get more out of it than they do. I let them ask any question they want to ask.

I tell them, you throw them in my head, it'll be much more fun for me than if you deliver up softballs. So we can talk about investments or business, but we can talk about philanthropy or we can talk about marriage or we can talk about career. And I remember some time back, There was a young woman from the University of Chicago and the very first question I got from her was, Do you have to be a bitch on wheels to succeed? And I think I convinced her that she didn't. And my guess is she's succeeding now. So you get a lot of good feelings out of teaching. I started when I was 21. Well, I really want to talk to students and if I talk to a bunch of 50 or 60 year olds, they want two things. They want predictions and to be entertained. They're not going to change their behavior patterns at all. It's too late for them. Somebody once said the chains of habit are too light to be felt until they're too heavy to be broken.

And by the time you're saying, you're not going to, you know, there's no great change that's going to take place. But with the students, It actually makes a difference. And I get letters from them telling me how it makes a difference. It makes a difference maybe in who they marry or how they go into marriage in terms of the discussions that they have with their proposed spouses, all kinds of things about what they'll do in careers or whatever it may be. Who knows what comes out of it? But I do know, because I hear from them, I do know that it changes their lives in some way. And I have a good time too. Well, the toughest thing I have to do is if I have to fire a manager. And we have no retirement age at Berkshire, so it isn't like at 65 I can say, you know, you're just terrific, but we've got this rule.

So when I tell somebody it's time for them to leave, they know I'm making a decision about them. And these people are my friends, and I do it myself. In most cases, not all cases, but most cases. Certainly if they're friends of mine, I do it. And most of them are, I do it myself. I would give a lot of money not to have to do that sort of thing, but that is my job. Capitalism at times can be very tough, and the market system can. It's a wonderful system, and it produces way more goods and services that people want than any other system will. But with given individuals, given industries, given companies, it can be brutal. It's up to me to have the right person running a business. And sometimes that right person runs out of gas for one reason or another.

Sometimes, I mean, I've had cases of Alzheimer's and other debilitating situations and I get on a plane and fly and one way or another tell them that their time is up and it's they usually get it toward the end they're consoling me usually because I feel so terrible about it but but you know it's not pleasant but I you have to make other tough decisions there's no question about it it's painful and it'll always be painful and and I know that I have to do it and uh And somebody will have to come and tell me, but I'll understand what they're going through. I tell my kids, you know, tell me when I'm going gaga, but all three of you better come in because if it's just one of you, you're out of the will. Oh, I think it's largely a blessing. I mean, that is when you're making decisions. I mean, I like to sit and think.

I spend a lot of time doing that, and sometimes it's pretty unproductive. But I find it enjoyable to think about, particularly about business or investment problems. They're easy. It's the human problems that are the tough ones. Sometimes there aren't any good answers with human problems. There's almost always a good answer with money. Well, I think somebody, I think for most people, it's a pretty good to remember. I think it was Bertrand Russell's words, although I tried to look it up one time and I couldn't find them. But he said that success is getting what you want and happiness is wanting what you get. And I would say the best measure of success for many people Comes from a story.

It was a woman here in Omaha a Polish Jew who went into concentration camp during the war one in the German operation where some of her family went in with her and she was in one line and her sister was in another line and they didn't all come out. I mean she went through terrible times. And when she was maybe 80, so I probably would have been 70, she said to me one day, she said, Warren, she said, I'm very slow to make friends. because when I look at somebody, I say to myself, Would they hide me?

And I would say that if you get to be 65 or 70 or 80, You've got a lot of people that would hide you you're a success and it's really another way of saying a lot of people who really love you and I would say that you get to be that age and People are holding testimonial dinners for you You know write them a check or naming business schools after whatever it may be and nobody will hide you I think you're a failure and I know plenty of very wealthy people that their own kids wouldn't item and So I think I think if you're looking for one measure of success just say to yourself How many people would hide me and there's a lot of people that? That they've never accumulated a lot of money or anything But there's all kinds of people that would would do anything for him and I feel that way about some people and and and have felt that way and You know your success then No, I don't.

I used to, when I was about 10 years old, I used to think about it a lot. But now, I've had a terrific life. I feel, you know, it's going to happen. And I have no idea what happens after it. I'm an agnostic, so I, you know, it may be terribly interesting, it may not be interesting at all, we'll find out. But it, it, Your body gets kind of tired after a while. Mine isn't quite there yet, but I think in another 20 years, I'm not sure I would want a lot more days after that. I am having, you know, I'm having as good a time at 84 as I've ever had, but my body can't do the same things now that it could before, but fortunately it doesn't make any difference in my activities. Someday it'll make a difference, and I don't, I would not want to stick around in a paralyzed state. Just take Joe Kennedy, for example. I would not want to exist that way. I do not want to survive just to survive.

I've told my kids and my wife that. Just don't keep me alive. Just keep a heart beating. Keep me alive as long as I'm enjoying life. Well, physically, you know, I'm pretty well depreciated. I'm getting down to salvage value. But it doesn't really make any difference. I mean, I don't need hand-eye coordination. I don't need balance particularly or strength. And so I'm not as strong as I was five years ago. I've gone out to do it, but I probably hit a golf ball, you know, at best half the distance I could have hit it ten years ago. But it really doesn't make any difference at all. It doesn't interfere. with my work, it doesn't interfere with my happiness, doesn't interfere with my thinking, doesn't interfere with my friends.

So I literally can say at 84, I may not be able to say it in a few more years, but I can say at 84 that I The fact that my body isn't the same as it was earlier, it wasn't that great to start with. You're not looking at some guy that was a candidate for the Heisman or anything in the past. I don't feel any diminution in my enjoyment of life enthusiasm for life at all to this point. In fact, in a sense, the game that I'm in gets more interesting all the time. One part about growing old that's particularly tough is you lose more of your friends. I mean, that is tough. I just lost one last week, and Keo, who was a wonderful friend.

But aside from that, and that's important, but aside from that, Wake up every morning is excited about the day that's coming as I ever have in my life I would not do as well on an IQ test as I would have 50 years ago. I can do mental arithmetic still pretty well, but not as good as I could when I was in my 20s or 30s. I read faster when I was younger. My memory is still pretty good for Business facts and that sort of thing but if I'd read a book when I was 25 I'd remember it better than if I read a book now on the other hand I've learned more about people over the years so that so I have I'm better actually at things that involve people judgments that I would have been when I was in my 20s, but in terms of learning a new game, I wouldn't learn it as fast now.

Used to be a game called Simon that you that you pressed various buttons and things happened. Well, I was pretty good at that 40 years ago. If I took that up now and spent the same amount of time practicing on it, I wouldn't be nearly as good. I've learned all kinds of things about human behavior. It's very hard to describe all the various aspects of it, but I have seen, you know, when I was 20 I hadn't seen that much of human behavior, but now I've experienced a lot, particularly in sort of a specialized field. So I think I'm quite a bit better in terms of, particularly with the extremes of human behavior. If you give me a hundred people, I can't pick out the best one to run a business, take out a hundred graduates of a good business school or something.

I can't pick out the best one, but if I hear from people who are selling a business or associate with some other way, I think I'm reasonably good at picking the ones that are predicting how they'll behave after they sell us the business or how they'll behave in other situations in the future. You still make mistakes. I have no regrets at all that I focused on. I got interested in stocks when I was probably seven or something like that. I got interested in business when I was six or seven. And, you know, would it have been better if I'd focused on chess? No, Bobby Fischer would have killed me. If I focused on golf, you know, it would be a joke. So I happened to very early on learn something.

sort of stumble into an area that I wasn't going to be naturally good at and I was better because I did stumble onto it early and I was better because I focused on it but and obviously if you're gonna spend X hours a day on some particular activity you're not gonna do it on something else but I never learned ice skating. I don't miss it at all. There's all kinds of things. You get to pick what you spend your time on, if you're lucky you get to pick. I've been able to really decide my own calendar for the last 60 years probably to a degree that almost—be hard to top it anyway. I'm glad I made those choices. I get every day, and I've been doing this for decades, I get to work at what I love with people I love.

You know, if you take my assistant, Debbie Masonic, I mean, there's nobody in the world, you know, I'd rather work with than her, you know, and Charlie Munger, my partner, even though he's in Los Angeles, there's nobody I'd rather work with than Charlie and the managers we have. So I get to select the game, sort of how the game is going to be played, and I get to select the people I get who are going to be on my team. And If I'm associating with somebody that causes my stomach to churn, it's my fault because I don't have to do it. I've arranged things that way to quite a degree. I'm in a field where I can do that. If I was in government, I wouldn't be able to do it, or politics, all kinds of things. But fortunately, I consider it the ideal game. Well, I like things quiet.

I shut the door actually at the office because I don't want to hear anybody talking outside. And I like to read a lot. I can't read as fast as I used to read. But I still probably spend five or six hours a day reading and, or thinking while I read. It's the kind of life I like. Somebody else with a different personality might like something much different. But I do know what I like, and I've managed to create an environment where I maximize it. Well, over the years you develop a lot of filters, so you don't waste a lot of time on things.

I always worry about sounding rude when people call me about a business because Usually in a minute or two I can tell whether it's gonna make it through all the filters this is something I'm interested in and I don't like to tell them that because they feel that if I just listen to him for an hour that I'll Understand why they like it so well or something of the sort. So there are these There are various shortcuts that you get but I I probably don't retain, you know, I I'm retaining a particular I set of, or collection of information, but other people are doing it in different ways. I mean, when I was a kid, I could have told you it was a starting lineup for, you know, 16 major league teams, but there were only eight teams in each league, and they didn't trade their players around or anything. I can't tell you anybody now, but there are all kinds of people that can.

They're just collecting different information than I'm collecting, and there are people that are carrying around absolutely much information in their head as I am, but I happen to have it pretty well concentrated in a few areas. I do know what I call my circle of competence. I stay within that circle and I don't worry about things that are outside that circle that other people may be able to capitalize or evaluate. It doesn't bother me that other people have skills that I don't have. Well, my circle of competence, which has grown to some degree, but a circle of competence is the area in which certain kinds of industries, for example, I can understand the future economics of other kinds of industries, I can't. And I have to know where the perimeter of that circle is.

now, over the years, I may be able to enlarge the circle somewhat, but the circle never gets to be all-encompassing.  and tom watson sr., who... Build IBM said I'm no genius, but I'm smart in spots and I stay around those spots Well, he was talking about a circle of competence and I see all of I you know, my partner Charlie says, you know That's wonderful to have a IQ of 180 as long as you don't think it's 200 and I have seen all kinds of very very smart people self-destruct one way or another in business or particularly in the stock market and they they stray outside of their circle of competence just because they know they're very, very smart, but that doesn't mean they know everything. And defining what your game is, where you're going to have an edge is enormously important. And I think both my partner Charlie and I have gotten reasonably good at that over the years.

Well, greed takes more on that, but I would say envy does it probably as much as anything else. I mean, the reason they get greedy is because you sit there during an internet boom or something and your next-door neighbor who you know is not as smart as you are has just bought a new car because he did something he didn't understand but it worked. And you say to yourself, well, you know, if he can do it, I can do it. I know I'm better than he is. Or maybe your spouse says to you, you know, what's going on with the Joneses next door? You're smarter than he is, but they're driving newer cars.

So envy is a big—I ran a firm on Wall Street for a short period of time, and— Would pay some buddy in their late 20s a couple million dollars and this is 20 years ago when a couple million was even more than now and they would be fine until they found the guy next to him, you know got to 2.1 million and then from that point forth they were unhappy so Envy is a terribly destructive guy greet greet and get mixed up together but And the thing about envy, of course, is, as my partner Charlie says, of the seven deadly sins, I mean, there's no upside to it. I mean, you talk about gluttony, and at least it's kind of fun while you're eating, and you can talk about lust, and we know, you know, there's some fun there, but envy, you make yourself feel terrible, and the other guy that you're envious of doesn't even feel it. Well, it's a game.

I mean, it's a competitive game. It's a big game. And I enjoyed the game a lot. The money has utility up to a point, but that point was reached probably when I was... In my early 30s, beyond that point, money had no utility, but the game was a lot of fun, and the games continue to be fun, and it does benefit other people. But I was born with wiring that in this kind of economy, at this time in our history, I'm going to make a lot of money if I work at it. It doesn't mean that I'm a superior human being or anything, but I wasn't born so that I can win Dancing with the Stars. I can't come in second or third or fifth or tenth. I can come in last. It was pure accident, but I was in the right place at the right time with the right wiring if you were going to make money.

I realized that at at some point and I enjoyed it, the game. And it is a game that you don't have to, you know, it's not like being a heavyweight boxer or baseball player or something. I mean, you can play that game a long, long time. I was smart, but I wasn't that smart. I was good at what I ended up doing.  but, you know, I got a nickel a week allowance and a nickel a week wasn't enough to satisfy my wants.  so I went into business very early and I wasn't going to make more than a nickel a week unless I started selling Coca-Cola door-to-door, I sold gum door-to-door, or sold saturday ink post, liberty magazine, ladies home journal, you name it.  and I enjoyed it.

Well, I like Omaha, but I'm comfortable when I'm other places, because I have friends, a lot of friends, particularly on both coasts, and almost very convenient flying either way. I can be almost any place in three hours, and I like to see my friends, and I like action. But I like Omaha. It's... I live five minutes from where I work and that's been the situation now for 53 years. I work with people that, I mean a great group of people that make my life very easy and take good care of me. My grandchildren went to the same high school that my children went to, my wife went to, my dad went to, and my grandfather went to, same public school, inner city. integrated, been integrated for 75 years. Charlie Munger went to the same school. So there's a lot of continuity to it. There's a lot of friendships.

The medical center's five minutes from the office, at 84, maybe that's a little more important. And I know the doctors, they know me, I knew their fathers probably. So everything works. And it's a pace, it's relationships, continuity that I like. But I'm very happy when I'm other places too, seeing my friends there. Well, a typical day, I don't have any special time I get the office, but normally I get up a little before 700. I happen to get up at 430 this morning, so sometimes I wake up early and I do a lot of reading then too. I'll get up, but I'll read the papers at home almost always. So I may get to the office this morning.

I happen to get here at 630 because I got up very early and I read all the papers and still got here early. But it doesn't really make any difference because I can think about the same things at the office. I have very few appointments. I'm the least scheduled guy you'll find in my position and I like it that way. But I get here to the office and I've read some of the papers, I read more papers, I read mail. I don't do email myself, but it comes from my assistant and that keeps it down. And I sit and read all day. We don't have any committees at Berkshire. We don't have a committee. We don't have a PowerPoint. We don't have any of that sort of thing. We don't have a public relations department. We don't have investor relations. We don't have a general counsel. We don't have a human relations department. We've got 300 and some thousand employees around the world and we're probably third or so in market value, maybe fourth in the world. But we just don't go for anything that people do just as a matter of form. And I've got an office I like.

that goes on and some days I go home at five, sometimes I go home 530 or 600, and I come down on Saturdays usually, but I come down mid-morning maybe and usually go to lunch with somebody in the office and there'll be four or five people in and If there's a football game, I may watch it on TV at the office. I watch a lot of football games or whatever it may be, sports events, maybe in the afternoon while at the same time thumbing through other things. It's exactly the life I like.

I think it was about 1992, shortly after I met Bill Gates, I was out at a, with his parents and they had some other guests, and Bill's dad asked each of us, and there were probably 20 or so, to write down on a piece of paper one word that would best describe what had helped us the most. And Bill and I, without any collaboration at all, each wrote the word focus. And I would say my partner Charlie Munger is an extreme example of focus.

But, you know, that's why Tiger Woods hit 10,000 putts too, or, you know, or Roger Federer's But spending three or four hours a day hitting a golf ball or some pianist has been spending five hours a day practicing I mean focus is just Bearing down on something that in my case and I think probably the cases of most people that are reasonably good at what they do That they enjoy I mean you wouldn't be able to do it if it was work So it's it's it's a natural it is not it's not a I say to myself, I'm going to focus on this or do anything of the sort. It's just a natural behavior and it's been that way ever since I was a kid. But kids focus. The best the best kid at baseball and you know in eighth grade is is taking a lot of swings out there or you know or he's i think bill bradley told me I used to shoot baskets five or six hours a day because he figures some other guy was doing it four hours a day and But he enjoyed it too.  and and I it's the same way with me.

i can't tell you the color of the walls in my Bedroom or my living room or the color of the carpet in my living room? and One time when I worked at home, I worked in this little sewing room sort of off the bedroom, and at one point my wife put in this wallpaper with this bright red and had dollar bills on it or something. She found it someplace. And a couple years later I said to her, I said, That new wallpaper is terrific, and she said, It's been there a couple years. I just don't see things like that. I'm not colorblind or anything, but it's just not something that grabs me. On the other hand, I'll remember a number sometimes a long, long time. My partner Charlie Munger would be the same way. Bill Gates would be the same way.

I've got a lot of friends that they just get so darned interested in what they're working on, they just don't see other things. That makes me easy to live with in some ways. I mean, you can sort of get away with anything around me. It's very difficult to say but I grew up in a middle-class family basically my dad well my dad lost his job in 1931 a year after I was born I lost all his savings and only the fact of my friend his father had a grocery store was Kept eating it. Nevertheless. My father went on to have another child in a year or two later I mean he was an optimist and He believed very much in having an inner scorecard and never worry about what other people are thinking about you.

You know, just, just, if you know why you're doing what you're doing, that's good enough. And he read a lot. He was an introvert to some degree. He liked people, but he also liked just sitting and reading, liked talking with the kids. So he was a sensational teacher over the years. But we were learning how he saw life, and it made a lot of sense to us, so we started seeing life the same way. And he always emphasized that it's your inner scorecard that counts. Don't worry about what the rest of the world thinks.

Thinks he was probably a little bit better than that and he was kids were but but it sunk in my mother was very smart and Cared a lot about her children, but she'd had a very very tough childhood her mother ended up in a mental institution and One of her sisters joined it the other sister committed suicide her brother who was a superstar Died at about age 30 so that she'd had a she'd had a tough life and so She was very dutiful about taking care of the kids, but you didn't get the same feeling of love. It was there, but it didn't come out the same way as with my dad. She would have, I think she would have what would be known as migraines.

Now I don't think they even called them migraines in those days, but she would experience terrific headaches and you didn't want to be around her when she was having the headaches. And she would lash out more. She would never do it in public. And she worshipped my dad, so he was a calming force if he was around, but of course he wasn't around during the day when you were a little kid. So you want to do, you didn't want to be around when my mother had a migraine, but you probably, you know, I could be sympathetic to that. Well, she certainly was concerned in the sense that she had one exterior, she had one personality when other people were around, and sometimes she had a different personality when they weren't around. I mean, she did not show that other personality when other people were around, but I'm not sure how much, you know, I don't know what kind of pain she was actually in, so it's hard to evaluate that.

precisely, you know, what was the motivation for the behavior. I think it had a lasting impact on all three of us, sure. It, uh, it, may have helped. I may have compensated in some other ways. I mean, I've often thought that I've had so much luck in the world that most of the things I did that were wrong turned out pretty well, including when I went through a period where I got very rebellious when I was 13 or so, but I may have compensated by going out and delivering 500 papers a day, and if you translate that to the present day, I made a penny a paper, but in terms of compensating, Compounding is that penny shirt into something else?

Well, I never saw him do anything that you couldn't put on the front page of the paper and and and and I Know he was he was probably the best teacher Without attempting to be a teacher, you know with with all three of us kids. So it we all Grew up knowing that we had unconditional love from my dad that doesn't mean what he thought we could get away with everything There were times when I thought was just a fool, but he had a trippy way of showing his disapproval I mean he just he would basically and then he had plenty of reasons for having disapproval too, but he would he basically would just Essentially say, you know, I know you can do better than that Yeah, there's always saying it but but he didn't he didn't I don't think I ever heard him raise his voice in my lifetime. But you knew if he was disappointed with you. That would have a big effect with all three of us, actually, including me.

I don't want to please my dad, but I want to please my mother. Yeah. But I, sure, I mean, I think we all did. And we knew, incidentally, we didn't have to do a lot to do that. We just had to do our best. He never attempted in any way to steer me into any kind of activity. He encouraged me to go to college when I didn't want to go to college. But in terms of whether I was If you'd asked in his preference, he never would have said it to me, but he probably would have liked me to be a preacher or something of the sort. But he did not try and steer me in any direction. And even in terms of later on, in terms of getting married or anything of the sort, he was just for me. It's a great feeling.

Well, because I was born in 1930. I was conceived during the crash, so I actually owe my existence because my dad was a stock salesman. and by November of 1929 when I was conceived, there was no sense calling on people to try and sell him stocks, so I think he was probably just staying home and there wasn't any television in those days, so here I am. So I probably owe my existence to the stock market crash, but my dad had a heart attack very young, around that period, I don't know the exact time, but he basically felt if you did your best, things would work out, and he The bank where he was working closed, I think it was the day before his birthday, on August 12th in 1931. And he had what little savings he had in the bank. He owed $55 a month on a mortgage on the house we had. But he, you know, I don't know this, but I just know from his behavior subsequently and everything I've heard, He wasn't discouraged.

Like I say, he went on to have a third child. He worked right through the Depression. He started his own company because he had no place to go. He couldn't get a job any place, so he started his own company. originally called Buffett's Flanagan company. I think Slenica put up a little money because my dad didn't have any and That company continued. I eventually went to work with it. It was always a small company He never made lots of money. We never belonged to a country club We never had a second car any of that sort of thing, but we always we lived fine and and about 1936 we moved into a nicer house and and It it was a it was a middle-class sort of living and and that's what that's the way he wanted to live. I think probably the fact that my dad was optimistic would have had a big effect on me because I admired everything about him.

So to the extent that I was absorbing lessons from him without knowing it, I probably came about that. I don't know how much of Being optimistic is, you know, just, I've got every reason to be optimistic. For one, I've been healthy all my life pretty much, despite the fact that I eat like a six-year-old, and I've had terrific friends throughout my life. It'd be kind of hard. If I was anything but optimistic, there'd be something wrong with me. But I do think I, certainly being around an optimistic father, He didn't care about money at all. I mean he wanted to have enough money so his family could live fine But it meant nothing to me. He was kind of entertained by the fact that I liked him but but His optimism Reflected itself in the fact that he he believed that you know that all three of his kids would be do terrifically all although like I say, the expectations for girls then were entirely different than for boys.

But I had no doubt that he thought that I was gonna be a huge success. I was pretty standard. I liked to read more than most kids, and I really liked to read a lot. My eyesight was bad, I didn't know that for a while, but it never slowed me down. But I liked sports, and I was average. I was never good, I was never terrible, so I never would have been the first guy chosen, but I would have been the last guy chosen for basketball or baseball or whatever it might have been. When the time came, I liked girls. It was pretty normal that way, except we did move to Washington when I was 12 or so, when my dad got elected to Congress. That disrupted my life for a period. I was very rebellious after that.

I felt that I was doing fine and all my mom. All my life, everything was going well and then we moved to a different environment and I, so I behaved very badly there for a while. Not too long, but long enough to probably cause my parents some worry. Well, I just, at school, I just lost interest. I mean, I took pleasure in tormenting my teachers. I mean, at that time, for example, AT&T was the stock that all teachers owned for their retirement, paid $9 a year dividend. It was the ultimate safe stock, so the teachers all owned it. So my teachers found me a big pain in the neck, but they did think I knew a lot about stocks. So I shorted 10 shares of AT&T and brought the confirmation to school and showed these teachers that I was shorting the stock they were counting on for their retirement.

I was a real pain in the neck for a while. There was a period, actually there was one short period where... I think it was the English class. They actually put me in a special room. I was kind of like Hannibal Lecter and they shoved the things in under the door. But that didn't last too long. My dad at one point, this went on for six months. I stole things then. I didn't steal them because I wanted to do it. I just stole them because the guys I was hanging out with We're stealing things. And I like these fellows and they like me, but my dad at one point said, You can do better than this. And he may have thrown in the fact that I think you'll have to give up your paper routes if you keep behaving this way. And so I shaved up. I ran away, yeah. When I was at the low point, sort of, I decided I would run away.

But I was kind of a coward about it, so I talked two other guys, John McCrae and Roger Bell, into running away with me. And so we went out, we got on Wisconsin Avenue, near Western Avenue and we started hitchhiking. First guy that picked us up, we got in the car, three of us, hitchhiking and we asked him where he was going. He said, I'm going to hell and you'll want to come along. And at that point, I... The whole adventure was sort of tapering. So I got out of there as fast as I could. But we got to Hershey, Pennsylvania. One of the guys had some thoughts about the fact that Hershey was sort of nirvana and we could go to the Hershey plant and they'd give us free Hershey bars. They had an amusement park there. And then we got picked up by the highway patrol in Pennsylvania. And that scared the hell out of us. They took us down to the highway patrol headquarters. And we could hear this teletype in the background.

We just We were lying to these highway patrolmen about how the fact we had our parents permission and everything and we were afraid that Teletype was sending out at all points alert, you know pick these guys up so we got out of Hershey as fast as we could and finally we got back to washington roger bell's roger bell's father was a congressman too and Roger Bell's mother actually was in the hospital.  he cashed in his is what were then called war bonds to have the money finance his part of things and She was and and he I think he wanted to go to Stanton Military Academy and I think he ended up winning that I walked in the door and The first thing my mother was said to me was how come he came back so soon which was a little deflating So that was that was the last time I ran away bad.

i, i, i, socially when I left Omaha, I was in eighth grade, and I was doing okay socially in Omaha, but when I moved to Washington, they were at a different point sort of in, in, in, in social development at that point, and I, I was the youngest one always in the class because I'd skipped, and, and So I was sort of out of the swing of things there for a while. I went to my 60th reunion at Wilson High and there's a girl there named Barbara Wiegand. She's got a married name now, but I took her out one time to the Uptown Theater in Washington and I asked her whether she remembered what movie we saw and she said, No, I don't remember that. And then she said, But I do remember one thing. Am I an idiot? I said, What was that? And Barbara said, Well, you picked me up in a hearse.

It was true that I owned a half-interest in a hearse when I was in high school, which was not the smoothest thing, or coolest, as they would say now, the thing that you could do on a date. Yeah, well, when I was very young, I was probably only 10 or so at that time, this was before I moved to Washington. I did work at my grandfather's grocery store. And there was a fellow named Eddie that was the oldest driver. We had seven trucks, seven orange trucks at the grocery store. It was a credit and delivery store. And so I would be his helper. And people would phone in their orders, and then I would load the truck in reverse order of how we were going to deliver it. And Eddie would tell me how to load the truck. So... I went out with him the first day. I unloaded the truck, like he said, and we started out, and our first stop was in Benson, and then we went up for our second stop was in Dundee, and then we went back to Benson, which was a couple miles away again.

Then we went to Central Omaha, then we went back to Benson again, and I couldn't take it after a while. I said, Eddie, you know, I'm only 10, but this is the craziest route I've ever seen. I said, let me redesign this, and we can get this done with half the mileage, and Eddie gave me this disgusted look, and I thought Eddie was 120, then he was probably about 10 years younger than I am now. But Eddie gave me this look and he said, Warren, don't you understand? He said, Mrs. Call is the best looking woman on the route and if we get there early enough, she may not be dressed. And he said, And then Mrs. Code is the second best looking and if we get there... And I felt so sorry for this woman who was last on the route. I mean, by definition, she was in bad shape. But I learned a little bit about business then and sometimes how the employee's interest can differ from those of the employer. I've always been competitive, but sometimes it doesn't pay to be competitive if you're in the wrong game.

I was in one boxing match when I was about 10 or something like that, and after the first round I don't think I could lift the gloves, but fortunately the other guy was in the same position, so it didn't make much difference. It wasn't, it was not a formal household. And most, a good bit of the time it was a happy household and some of the times it wasn't, but most of the time it was. And we did, there was a lot of, there was a lot of entertaining in the home in those days. Nobody had much money, so there were bridge clubs, for example, and I always, I always did very well with older people. I mean, I liked my dad my dad's friends. And then I used to walk over to a church for choir practice. I was in a kid's choir when I was 10 or 11. And on the way back, I'd always stop at about 10 houses and talk to various housewives that I knew through my mother or my dad.

And there was a lot of sociability in We had a ping pong table in the basement and all of my dad's friends that would come over, they'd all take me on in ping pong. I was reasonably good at that. There was a lot of that sort of thing. So there was a lot of sociability. way that didn't cost any money basically. And it was, we had a good time. There was a lot of singing. We had a little organ that my mother played. My dad and mother were both quite religious and so it was mostly, well it was almost exclusively church hymns. So I still know the words to some of those old church hymns. It didn't have much effect on me. I was in the kids choir at Dundee Presbyterian Church and I actually, my wife and I taught a Sunday school right there, a class right after we got married for a while.

And then I think one of the people in one of the other classes heard too much laughter coming out of our class. We were having a very good time. So I think they decided that they could use a new faculty at that point. I didn't want to go to college. I was 16 when I got out of high school. I was making about, probably was making $150 a month or something like that delivering papers, which only took a couple hours in the morning. I had this half interest in a pinball machine route with a buddy of mine. I liked to go to the horse races and handicap horses, and I really felt that I didn't really need much more than that. I was buying stocks. I mean, I read the Wall Street Journal every day, and I did a lot of charting of stocks and that sort of thing then. And I was having—I actually was having a pretty good time, and I didn't see that there really was much to be gained by going to college.

But my dad kind of jollied me into it, and I think he probably— didn't have SATs, at least we didn't use SATs in those days, but I think he probably would have taken the test for me if need be. So he suggested that I apply to the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, and if I didn't like it, I could quit. And a year went by, and I got very good grades in college. I mean, my grades improved as I as I went along in school. But I didn't feel I was learning that much there because I had mostly graduate students as professors and they were just staying a chapter ahead of me in the book. So I asked my dad if I could quit then and he said, Well, give it another year. So I gave it another year and still felt the same way. So he said well do what you want to do.

So I actually transferred the University of Nebraska and That way I finished in three years because I had had enough credits that I could get out in three years and I was in a hurry I wanted to get out I'm doing a disservice to those schools because I I did learn a fair amount there and I would say that's the University of Nebraska actually My year there. I learned fully as much as I was learning at Wharton which had a much bigger reputation and One day I was reading the Daily Nebraskan, which was the college newspaper, and it said in room 300 or something at 3 o'clock they're going to award the scholarship of $500 to go to a graduate school of your choice. So I showed up there. And I was the only guy that showed up.  and these professors wanted to keep waiting for other people to show up.  i said, wait a second.  it said 3 o'clock.  so I got the scholarship unopposed.

and I applied to the harvard business school.  my dad was suggesting that to me.  and anything my dad wanted me to do in the end, I could do. I usually went along with it. He never pushed me hard, but if I knew he wanted me to do something, I was very inclined to go along. So I applied and then I went to, they told me to go to Chicago to get interviewed by this fellow that ran a country day school near Chicago. So I got on Burlington train, rode for 10 hours to Chicago, and then I got another little inter-urban train, rode up to this day school school and the guy interviewed me for about 10 minutes and he basically said, you know, buy something else. So I reversed the process, spent 10 or 12 hours getting back thinking, what am I going to tell my dad?

And it all worked out because They did turn me down, but then I was at the University of Omaha that summer, and I was leafing through a catalog of other schools, because I did have this 500 bucks that they were going to give me from Nebraska to go to a graduate school. And I saw these names of Graham and Dodd, who had written this masterpiece of a book in 1934, and it was now 1950. And I had no idea that they were teaching or anything.  and I saw that Dave Dodd was the assistant or associate dean, I think it was, at Columbia.  so I wrote him a letter, and I think it was probably August by then, and I said, dear dean dodd, i thought you guys were dead, but now that I know you're alive, I'd really like to come and study under you.  and so he got me in, and he turned out to be a wonderful wonderful friend. I mean, he would take me to dinner there and he treated me like a son. It was a marvelous experience.

Well, I actually, when I was at Columbia, I had been terrified of public speaking all of the time prior, well, I don't know when it started. It must have started, maybe I had some terrible experience. I can't remember, you know, in grade school, but I was terrified. I couldn't do it. I'd throw up. And so I avoided classes where I would be expected to do that. And I I was fine if I wasn't on stage.  i mean, I did a lot of talking otherwise.  but so when I was at Columbia, I saw an ad for a Dale Carnegie course in midtown, new york.  and i went down and I wrote a check. to take the course. And then right after I got up this little apartment I was paying 10 bucks a month for on Claremont Avenue, I stopped paying my other check. I just didn't have the guts to go through with it. And then when I got out of school, I came back to Omaha. I'm now 20 years old.

I'm going to sell stocks to people that are 50 or 60. And I didn't even look 20. and I just knew I had to be able to get so I could speak in front of people better. So again, I saw an ad that at the Rome Hotel here in Omaha on 16th Street that they were gonna have a Dale Carnegie course. And I went down and a fellow named Walter Keenan, who later became a very good friend and a partner in my investment partnership, but who I never met before, was the teacher. And I handed him $100 in cash. And if I parted with $100 in cash, I knew I was gonna follow through. So we took that Dale Carnegie course there were about 30 of us and We couldn't say our own name in public at the start They made us do all these crazy things to get out of ourselves. And so we stood on tables and did all kinds of things and It worked. As soon as I got out of that class, I went right out to the University of Omaha and said, I want to start teaching because I want to get in front of people and force myself to keep doing it. That's why I can't stop talking now.

It was during the class, incidentally, they gave a pencil every week for the person who had done the most with what they'd learned the week before. And during that class I proposed to my wife to be and she accepted. So when I told that story the following week when we met I won the pencil. Well, she was 19 when we got married and I was 21. But she was so much more mature than I was, there's no comparison. And she really put me back together. I was very good at a lot of things, I mean in terms of business for my age. But on the other hand, I was kind of a lopsided character I'm still lopsided in some ways, but now I'm lopsided in in ways I like and I was in those days I was Lopsided in some ways. I didn't like so she she really put me together.

She was she was there with a little watering can putting him pouring it on me and and it you know, she's responsible for Well, I would have accomplished nothing without her. I mean, she was incredibly empathetic. She was non-judgmental. It wasn't that she didn't have standards, but she just was non-judgmental about people, and she felt every person, again, was the moral equivalent. equivalent of every other person. She was interested in every person individually. We once went to a football game in Seattle. University of Washington was playing Nebraska, and at halftime, I went down to get a hot dog and a Coke, and she with me and there was a line of about four people there and I got in line and five minutes later I had my coke and my hot dog in hand and I went back and she was waiting a few feet away and there was a woman standing next to her and this woman was at that point was saying, Now I've never told this to anybody else in my life.

This is the one, you know, that woman was not there when I went to get the hot dog. People just, they opened up to her. She had more people probably that considered her their best friend than anybody I've ever known. Well, I was very focused. I was into my work big time. She did most of the work by far of bringing up the children, which was probably a good thing. They have more of her qualities than mine, which I would recommend. I told my dad, Leave me out of his will. I don't need the money. I'm gonna, you know, I knew I was gonna get rich. So I told him just to have my sisters. So I was a trustee for my mother and then subsequently for my sisters.

But, no, I was not, I did not become the central figure in the family at all. My politics became more overt after my dad died. But, you know, he died at age 60, so he was young. I was 33 at the time. But, I don't, my life didn't change dramatically. We incidentally, I mean we lived here in Omaha, we lived a block and a half from Susie's parents and we lived about two miles from my parents. So the whole family was pretty much here in Omaha, including aunts, some aunts, aunts and uncle. I was not much of a disciplinarian. I... I tried. It wasn't a question of trying. It was just natural.

But I tried to behave with my kids like my dad would behave with me. I mean, I never tried to steer him in anything because I just cherished the fact that my dad had supported me so much in anything I did. So I've got three very different kids, and they've got a common heart, which they got from their mother. But I have never felt that it was important that they come into— Berkshire Hathaway or that they do what I do. That's crazy. You know, I mean they they're each one have individual talents and I certainly wouldn't want to try and take up what they do. I've got one son that farms I'm not much for manual labor, but so why should they do what I do? I mean, it's never made any sense to me.

So I I have I I'm sure I brought to the raising of kids What I thought were the better parts of without doing it consciously but what I thought were the better parts of the way I was raised and It worked well, but I don't think it'll work for lots of other people necessarily, but it worked very well. I mean, we loved each other and we both, we not only loved each other, we admired each other and we were totally in sync with what the other was doing, but we were two different individuals. It wasn't hard for me. I mean, they were still part of our lives. You want them to do that, so that was not hard for me.

It goes back to that, was it, Oscar Hammerstein, you know, that a bell's not a bell till you ring it, a song's not a song till you sing it, love in the heart isn't put there to stay, love isn't love till you give it away. It's a very strange thing, love, you can't get rid of it. If you try to give it out you get more back. If you try to hang on to it you lose it. It's something like, there may be other things like that but I can't think what they are. Understanding about human behavior and all of that, if you're observant at all and you've had a long lifetime and you had all kinds of experiences, you learn a lot about human behavior. Think you recover how do you recover from him? How did I recover from my dad's death or anybody else?

And you know or just a good friend that died a very good friend a week ago didn't know you go on but that Susie spent lots she spent more time probably with dying people about anybody that wasn't in the medical profession. I mean, she helped people die. And she helped my friend Joe Rosenfield, who was a man, he was one of my heroes, one of her heroes, too. And he lived to be in the high 90s. He was a marvelous man. I mean, he's a real model for anybody. And But by the time he died, I mean, he had no wife, no child anymore, and she was there when he died. She did that for dozens of people.

Well, Ostrand had lived with me for a long time and, you know, Susie put me together, Ostrand kept me together, and she's been doing it ever since and she takes care of me like nobody else could take care of me. And not just physically, I don't mean that, I mean just in all ways. Well, it's just, it's the best mental game I know, aside from business, which I think is kind of an interesting mental game too, but it's, you know, you're going to play a hand every seven or eight minutes, and you are going to be facing something where every hand you've played in the past has got some utility in evaluating the present hand, but you'll never play the same hand twice. You're playing it with a partner, so it's a game where Partnership dynamics are very important.

It's a game where every card played You can draw or every bid made or not made or every card played or not played you can draw inferences from so it is I regarded as absolutely the most fascinating game there is I'm not that good at it, but and I think that I can't think of a better form of mental exercise and I hope I'm playing it when I'm 100 years old. I probably spend at least 10 hours a week playing bridge on the computer, and I enjoy every minute of it. I'm not frugal in the sense, I buy anything I want, I buy. And if I could, if I thought it was, if I thought I would enjoy a $200 dinner better than a hamburger, I'd buy it.

But on Sunday, I frequently take out my children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. I've got nine great-grandchildren and seven of them live in this area and we go to Dairy Queen. We don't go to Dairy Queen because Berkshire owns it. We don't go to Dairy Queen because it doesn't, you don't run up a big bill. We go to Dairy Queen because I'd rather eat their food than anybody else's and the rest of them do too. So I have never maybe one, you know go back to when I was 15 or something, but basically I've never denied myself anything I wanted and The plane is very useful to me and it makes it enables me to do things that I wouldn't be able to do otherwise and and It's a lot more comfortable and you know, so it doesn't make any difference what it costs because money has no meaning to me anymore. So if something costs me a million dollars and I'm going to really get something out of it, I'll do it.

But there's very, very, I can't think of what, you know, money doesn't, certainly doesn't buy love. It'll buy sex, you know, buy recognition, you know, you can write, you can get your name out of a building if you want to write a big enough check. But there's no way you can buy love. It can buy testimonial speeches. So most things, very few things that require money. A plane requires money. But I could have multiple houses, but my life would be worse rather than better. I have all kinds of friends that have multiple houses, and basically they become like a hotel manager, and they have to plan what people want. I don't want to do all that. My wife and I...

First wife Susie when we were in our 20s talked about what we do with money I kept telling her we'd make a lot of I'd make a lot of money and she humored me she didn't really care and And and whether she believed me or she believed me on things generally, so she probably believed me But it didn't really make that much difference But it did make a difference what we're gonna do with the money after we made it So we actually set up a foundation over 50 years ago I just looked back at the records and the other day and I think we set it up in 1964 and We always said we were going to give away, if I made a lot of money, which I was convinced I would, that we would end up giving it away. We'd have everything we wanted, but, and we would leave our children, originally the idea was enough so they could do anything, but not enough so they could do nothing. That was a line that actually Catherine Graham gave to me, but it makes a lot of sense, I mean, if you're very wealthy.

You know, it's crazy do you know have your kids out there and and in rags or something of the sort But it's also crazy to have them so they never have to lift a finger the rest of their life. So so Over time we've given them we gave him some money but In my entire lifetime, everything that I've spent, my wife's spent, and my kids have spent that came from me will be quite a bit less than 1 of everything I make. The other 99 plus will go to others because it has no utility to me. And my kids have all they need. They each run a foundation, which I... Fund and they do a terrific job doing it and they each in their own way they do it and they work hard at it and They live pretty much normal lives. I mean they they are not they're not driving Driving around.

I I gave him Probably how many years ago five or ten years ago? I gave him I started giving me a few hours on the plane, but not not not enough So that you go crazy on it, but so I I've softened up some on that, but I couldn't be more pleased with how the whole subject of money has worked out in our family. I thought I would pile it up over the years and I would be sort of a compounding machine to build up a whole lot of money and then she would unpile it in terms of running one very large foundation.

She was younger, just a couple years younger than I was, and women live longer, so I thought the odds were very good that she would disperse it and that it would be much better to give away many, many billions later on than give away a few millions early on, and that I was particularly good at compounding money, and therefore society would benefit by waiting. She didn't want to wait as much as I did, but she never quite appreciated compounding like I did. So it worked out, and then she died 10 years ago, and so I had to change my plans then, but that was the original plan, and she did run the foundation for a long time, and she gave away significant money, and when she died, I'd given her, her $22,000 over the first few years of our marriage, just because I thought she ought to have it in her own name.

And she left a $3 billion estate and 97 or so percent, 98 percent of that money went to the foundation. We always figured that the money could do a lot of good and that a lot of money could do possibly a whole lot more good and that she was better at giving away money than I would be and I was better at piling it up than she would be. So the whole thing made sense to both of us. I'm giving it to five foundations and the Gates Foundation is the largest, but the money has gotten to a scale where very few operations could really handle it. But I doubled the amount that I give to each one of the three children's foundations. So they're getting, at present prices for Berkshire, they're getting close to $150,000.

I don't know, 125 or 100, probably closer to 150 million of stock a year, and they gotta keep spending it. Then there's the Susan Buffett Foundation, which was originally, we had intended to be the whole thing. That was the one we set up 50 years ago. that's got quite a bit more money in. And then the largest is the Gates Foundation, who have the same feeling that I do, that every human life is of equal value. And so I feel very good about what's being done with the money. The money has no utility to me. It can't make me happier. It can't make me, you know, in any way. And it probably could make me miserable if I had to do certain things with it. And it has utility to other people. The properly used. So I've got a solution that fits exactly the objectives that we started with 60 years ago or so.

I'm a wholesaler in a sense in terms of giving it away, but I've got an older sister Doris who's known as the Sunshine Lady and she spends all day every day giving away money at retail and she's done a terrific job at it. I send her all the letters I get and She looks into each individual case. She doesn't give money to each individual case, but she evaluates them. She helps people and she gives them—she's their friend, too, in addition to the small checks that she gave out. But she can't get rid of the money that I've got doing that. I love the fact she does it, and I support her in a small way, but I have to do things at scale. Having a solution that where I feel good about the people, feel good about what's being done, and has the ability to do big things, makes me, yeah, that's exactly what I intended the money to do all along.

Both, probably. Because Bill and I and Melinda have worked on developing the Giving Pledge. I think actually that will be I think that will have quite an impact over the decades. I think 50 years from now, the Giving Pledge will be looked at as a really important move and will affect the level of philanthropy, particularly by the very wealthy in this country. So I think that'll be a factor. And I hope that Berkshire Hathaway is something that people study in terms of a business operation. Very wealthy people, they vary, just like very poor people vary in their emotions and motivations and everything.

But one problem that they have, they often have, is that they don't have many peers to talk to when you get into the question of their children for example or philanthropy or whatever it may be. They may have a lawyer they talk to but they don't just want to go out and talk to anybody about it. So Bill and I have found in the Giving Pledge that when We open up the conversation They really like to talk and the first meeting we had we asked David Rockefeller if he would host in New York City and he was very gracious about it and put together a group of Well, we put together the group. He held the dinner of 15 or 20 people. And I started by asking one couple that were there, and these were all very well-known names, and I said, You know, tell me about how you came about your philosophy of giving. Well, we went around that table, and it was a couple of hours later.

Before people finished talking they wanted to talk about it, but it wasn't something they were going to talk about neighborhood You know or anything of the sort and many of them had different over the years I mean as we talked to more people they've all different kinds of family situations and some of them been very disappointed with their kids and some of them feel terrific and some of them find the kids want the money and others the kids want philanthropy and but from that came the idea that that we might develop something in the way of both being smarter about philanthropy and getting people perhaps engaged in the younger and in a bigger way by organizing an entity that would focus on that. So the Giving Pledge came out of that. There was a need for it. I mean, it is, it isn't that it's changed the behavior of loads of people. Most of the people overwhelmingly in the giving pleasure were philanthropically inclined beforehand. They were going to do it.

I think some of them are doing it I think some of them are doing it bigger and in a few cases and they've told me in fact I've got letters at the office They've told me that it really did change how they thought about things that clarified their own thinking at one case where the the one of the parents was Somewhat reluctant to do it and the kids talked him into doing it which was remarkable and I think it's done wonders in a family when that happens and Well, the big answer is you're in the right place if you're in America and you don't have to be critically smart, you just have to be patient. And the biggest thing in making money is time and I've had this long run and so the compounding at the end turns into very big numbers.

But if you would Well, the start of the 20th century, the Dow Jones average was at 66 and it ended at 11,400. That was with the Great Depression and world wars and flu epidemics and everything else. You've got a tailwind in this country if you just own a cross-section of it. One big thing is keeping down expenses, and the other thing is not trying to pick one stock but only a large group of stocks, and buying it over time, and then just sitting and paying no attention to people who say they know when to buy and sell stocks or buy and sell this individual stock. So it's a very simple game where the person who doesn't try to do very much usually does better than the person who spends a lot more energy on it.

It's been 50 years since May 10th, 1965 that I formally took control of Berkshire Hathaway. It was done through a partnership that I ran, a bunch of people that joined me, and I ran the money and started as a textile company with Doomed to Fail. and step by step and we've created something that is kind of what I dreamt we might create over time, but it took a lot of time to do it. Never seemed like we were making that much progress on any one day, but compound interest works. How can you look at a country, just anybody watching this, if they walk out their door and think of what was there in 1776, it was a bunch of trees, probably. There wasn't anything here.

And four million people, the first census in 1790, just under 4 million people. And we ended up a few hundred years later with 25 of the world's GDP. Now, something's working. And it isn't because we're a lot smarter than we were then or that we're working harder. We're not working as hard. But we've got a system that really, really works. It doesn't work for everybody. And that's something to remember. But in terms of overall output, it has worked since 1776 and it'll keep working better and better over the years. Not in a straight line. I mean, it has some fits and starts to it, but this system will turn out more and better goods per capita year after year. In my lifetime alone, one guy It's gone up six for one in terms of real GDP per capita since I was born in 1930. I was born into a pretty good country then, but You can't stop this. You can't stop America.

You really you probably can't stop the world The world is learning the lessons of you know China 40 years ago or so decided to modify their system in a way that Unleashed the potential of that population which before that had not moved there They were just as smart as we were they worked just as hard, but they weren't getting the results But now they just you know, they're going like gangbusters.